The Central Forensic Science Laboratory , Ramanthapur , the first and the only FSL in the country to get accreditation of the National Board of Laboratories , is to compile data of the recent blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . This would enable it to identify those who may be involved in such nefarious activities . Compilation of the data is to be taken up as part of a major research project , Creation of national bomb data centre , ' under a ten-year plan . The centre will be on the lines of that evolved by Israel , according to Chandranath Bhattacharyya , director . The CFSL has already collected data from various explosions that occurred in some States , comprising the nature and mode of explosion , extent of damage , casualties , parts of bomb container , fragments and initiation devices . The data , when compiled and analysed , would help crime investigation agencies link the crime with the groups who carry out that particular kind of operation . Sampling kits . . Dr. Bhattacharyya visited the recent bomb blasts sites at LOC_Event ( LOC_Event ) and LOC_Event ( LOC_Event ) with senior officials of the lab and collected samples which are to be examined at CFSL . As part of its programmes to create awareness about forensic science , the laboratory is proposing to distribute gun shot residue ( GSR ) sampling kits to all crime investigating agencies , including those in the North-East . The kits help in the collection of GSR particles from the hands of suspected shooters . CFSL will conduct a national-level two-day workshop on application of SEM-EDXA on GSR analysis from November 24 , where experts in GSR from the UK will provide training to ballistic staff from all over the country . Praveen Swami . . Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami cell may have executed bombing . . Explosive devices used at LOC_Event shrine closely resemble those placed in Mecca Masjid . . In both places , bombs were designed to be triggered by mobile phones alarm clock . . NEW DELHI : Forensic experts have determined that the explosive devices used in Thursdays blast at the shrine of LOC_Event closely resemble those placed in Hyderabads Mecca Masjid five months ago a fact which raises the prospect that the same terror group may have executed both strikes . . . Tests conducted on an unexploded device recovered from the shrine late on Thursday night , as well as shrapnel recovered from the bomb that detonated killing three , have shown that both devices were packed with dynamite . India proscribed the production of nitroglycerine-based explosives like dynamite in 2004 , but large stocks are believed to be still available on the black market . . . As at the Mecca Masjid , the bombs used in LOC_Event were designed to be triggered by a mobile phones built-in alarm clock , which was set to 6:10 p.m. Rajasthan police sources said the second bomb , stuffed inside a bag which also contained a crude map of the shrine , probably failed to explode because the phones speaker did not generate a voltage adequate to charge the detonator . . . Similar mobile phone malfunctions led to the failure of a second bomb planted in the Mecca Masjid and the car bombs fabricated by Bangalore engineering student Kafeel Ahmed for use in Glasgow and London earlier this year . Forensic experts said the fault was most likely caused by the use of mobile phones with low-grade components . . . Rajasthan police investigators have arrived in Hyderabad to question suspects held for the Mecca Masjid bombings . Karachi-based Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami terrorist Abdul Mohammad Shahid , who also uses the code-name Bilal , is wanted by Interpol for his alleged role in the Mecca Masjid bombings , as well as the subsequent serial bombings in LOC_Event this August . . . Rajasthan police sources noted that the Islamist terror networks , of which Shahid was a part , were known to have used Ajmer as a transit point in the past . . . In December 2005 , police in Ajmer interdicted a consignment of three Kalashnikov assault rifles , 229 cartridges and 15 detonators hidden in a truck carrying marble to Hyderabad . . . Investigators claimed that the trucks driver , Baramulla resident Shabbir Ahmed , had been tasked by the Hizb-ul-Mujahideens Pakistan-based chief , Mohammad Yusuf Shah , with delivering the weapons to terror cell in Hyderabad . Ahmed , a one-time operative for the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front , had joined the Islamist Hizb-ul-Mujahideen after training in Pakistan in 1990 . . . Shabbir Ahmed told the Rajasthan police that the weapons were intended for Mujib Ahmed , a key figure in the terror networks now run by Shahid . Ahmed had spent several years in jail for his role in the 1990 assassination of Additional Superintendent of Police Krishna Prasad . He was sentenced to life imprisonment , but was released by the Andhra Pradesh government in 2004 as part of a controversial Independence Day goodwill gesture . . . Soon after Mujib Ahmeds release from prison , investigators found that he reactivated his links with the Lashkar-e-Taiba , Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen . When Mujib was re-arrested in the wake of the LOC_Event weapons haul , police discovered that he had produced several films in which he appealed for funds for his new terror operations from Islamist sympathisers in West Asia . . . Amjad Ali , who was among Mujibs most trusted lieutenants , was responsible for recruiting Shahid . . . Ali , who the Central Bureau of Investigation held responsible for the assassination of former Gujarat Home Minister Haren Pandya , is thought to have despatched Shahid and at least 20 other Hyderabad men to train at the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami facilities in Pakistan after the 2002 communal pogrom in Gujarat . . . Several members of Mujib Ahmeds network , including Nalgonda resident Abdul Rehman , were arrested for their alleged role in the 2005 attack on the Indian Institute of Science in Bangalore . Officials of the Special Enquiry Squad of Central Crime Branch ( CCB ) interrogated Shahzad , an alleged Indian Mujahideen militant , in connection with the April 17 LOC_Event blasts , here on Friday . Shahzad and his associate Salman were brought here from Delhi on Thursday . The CCB officials produced the two in the first ACMM Court which allowed the police to interrogate them till October 30 . A team headed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police interrogated Shahzad on Friday while Salman will be questioned on Saturday , a senior police officer , who wished to remain anonymous , told The Hindu . Shahzad was grilled about his role in the crude bomb blasts ahead of an IPL match outside the cricket stadium and his alleged links with banned terrorist organisation , Indian Mujahideen . The charge sheet filed by the Anti-Terrorism Squad ( ATS ) of the Rajasthan police against five accused in the 2007 LOC_Event blast case on Friday has named senior Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader Indresh Kumar as having provided guidance for a conspiracy hatched by radical elements for planting bombs in several cities across the country . Despite pointing the finger at Mr. Kumar for addressing a secret meeting in Jaipur on October 31 , 2005 , the charge sheet , filed in an Ajmer court , has not arraigned him as an accused . It only says the probe is still continuing , though the RSS has denied Mr. Kumar 's involvement . The ATS has not identified the RSS or the radical outfit Abhinav Bharat as being involved in the conspiracy for the blast , drawing flak from activist groups here . They have alleged that the investigating agencies are trying to pre-empt the conclusions about the Sangh Parivar 's direct role in terrorism . The 806-page charge sheet says the office-bearers of some organisations hatched a conspiracy to counter the terror attacks on Hindu religious places and prepared a list of targets where the blasts are to be carried out . These included the LOC_Event , the LOC_Event and the LOC_Event in LOC_Event . Mr. Kumar , says the charge sheet , addressed a secret meeting of radical activists at a guesthouse in Jaipur , where he exhorted them to get affiliated to various religious bodies for completing their mission . This will eliminate the scope for suspicion about their trips to different cities . According to the charge sheet , the main accused in the LOC_Event blast case , Sunil Joshi of Indore ( who was later murdered ) ; the prime accused in the LOC_Event blast case , Pragnya Singh Thakur ; and four others checked into the guesthouse under fake names for attending the meeting . The roles of different persons were decided at the meeting , with the prime task of carrying out the blast at the time of Iftar ' at Ahata-e-Noor in the dargah assigned to Sunil Joshi , alleges the charge sheet . Lokesh Sharma and Ramji Kalsangare were asked to collect weapons and explosives and carry out a recce . The charge sheet says Devendra Gupta was asked to arrange for a mobile SIM card with fake identity papers , while Sandeep Dange and Sunil Joshi would have to arrange for money for the terror activities . The ATS produced one of the accused , Chandrashekhar , in the court while two others Devendra and Lokesh are in Hyderabad for interrogation in connection with the LOC_Event blast . Sandeep and Ramji , who are reportedly absconding , were named as accused . The prosecution appended to the charge sheet 213 support documents as well as a list of 133 witnesses . Chief Judicial Magistrate Jagendra Agrawal took cognisance against Devendra , Chandrashekhar and Lokesh under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code , the Explosives Act and the Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act and posted the case to October 26 . The death toll from a suicide bombing at a LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's restive LOC_Event has risen to 30 , a medical official said on Saturday , making the deadliest attack in October . Friday night 's bombing in the town of LOC_Event also wounded 68 people , according to Ahmed Alwan , a doctor at the general hospital of Baquba , the provincial capital of Diyala . The final toll from Friday 's bombing is 30 dead and 68 wounded . All the dead are men , but the wounded include three women and two children , Dr. Alwan said . Balad Ruz police chief Major Ahmed al-Tamimi had given on Friday a toll of 25 dead and 70 wounded when a suicide bomber detonated a belt filled with explosives at a LOC_Event in the centre of the city . Fall in bombings Suicide bombings across Iraq have fallen since 2008 when LOC_Event was an Al-Qaeda stronghold . Although the militants have lost ground , the province remains one of the most restive since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion . Friday 's attack took place in a region with a Kurdish Shia majority . LOC_Event , once a stronghold of Al-Qaeda , is the ethnically mixed capital of Diyala , which remains one of the country 's most unstable provinces . The blast was the first major attack in LOC_Event in several weeks , as a seven-month political stalemate surrounding the formation of a new government has dragged on . The Paryavarana Parirakshana Sangham ( PPS ) on Wednesday decided to organise a rally in Hyderabad , seeking a CBI probe into the bomb blast in LOC_Event two weeks ago . PPS president Y. Krishna Murthy and general secretary B. Dhilli Rao alleged that the government failed to identify the culprits who had planted the bomb in the hospital . The government should arrest the culprits immediately and take stern action against them . It should order a CBI inquiry also to expose the persons behind the conspiracy , they said . They said that the PPS had been making arrangements for the rally in the State Capital along with other civil society groups . The PPS leaders , who have been opposing construction of a power plant in LOC_Event , said that they suspect a conspiracy to eliminate the agitators physically so that others would not join the movement . The PPS also decided to stage a rasta roko on the National Highway near LOC_Event , as Revenue Minister Dharmana Prasada Rao was scheduled to participate in government functions on October 11 in Itchapuram . A group of heavily armed Pakistani Taliban militants on Thursday detonated an explosives-laden truck at the office of the Crime Investigation Department ( CID ) , which is spearheading the drive against terrorists in the southern port city of Karachi , killing at least 18 people and injuring 115 others . The attackers exchanged fire with guards outside the LOC_Event , located in a high security zone at a short distance from the Chief Minister 's official residence and several five-star hotels and consulates . After getting past a barricade and disrupting power in the area , the attackers detonated the explosives-laden truck at 8.17 p.m. ( local time ) . The powerful blast destroyed the facade of the CID office and reduced the nearby Civil Lines police station to rubble . It also uprooted trees , blew out windows of nearby structures and shook buildings located several kilometres away . Officials told the media that at least 18 people were killed and 115 others injured . The dead included several policemen and security personnel . The relatives of policemen , including women and children , living in nearby residential quarters were among those injured . Sindh Home Minister Zulfiqar Mirza compared the attack to the suicide car bombing at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event that killed nearly 60 people in September 2008 . The banned Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan claimed responsibility for the blast and warned that it would carry out more attacks if its demands were not met , Geo News channel reported . It could not immediately be ascertained whether the attackers were killed in the blast . There were conflicting reports on the number of militants involved in the attack . The area around the LOC_Event was cordoned off and an emergency was declared in hospitals . Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has directed Development Commissioner K.C. Saha and Director of the General Home Guard U.S. Dutta to jointly probe Sunday 's bomb blast in which eight people , including five children , were killed and 11 others injured in Naxal-hit LOC_Event district . Mr. Kumar also asked Chief Secretary Anoop Mukherjee to ensure adequate compensation to the families of the victims . Superintendent of Police Vivek Raj Singh said the bomb was planted by Maoists at LOC_Event village during the final phase of Assembly elections on Saturday . The Maoists had given a call for the boycott of the polls . The bomb was found by a police team on Saturday , but it was left in a field in the absence of a bomb disposal squad . When the villagers went to the field on Sunday morning , the bomb suddenly exploded , Mr. Singh told PTI . Twelve others who sustained splinter injuries were admitted to various hospitals in LOC_Event and LOC_Event towns . One of them died later , police said . However , the deceased were yet to be identified as angry villagers did not allow the police to approach the field . Efforts were on to pacify the locals , police said . A local court on Monday deferred to November 24 the arguments on CBI 's request seeking 15-day custody of LOC_Event bomb blast accused Swami Asimanand . The court has postponed the hearing after defence counsel Chennakesava sought more time to study the case and to file a counter petition after meeting his client Asimanand , who is under judicial custody till November 30 . The magistrate had appointed Chennakesava as counsel to represent Asimanand . The police have released a sketch of a person suspected to be behind the bomb explosion at LOC_Event on the night of November 19 . The police said the man was seen moving around in suspicious circumstances and vanished soon after the blast . The sketch was prepared on the basis of information given by those who claimed to have the person . On the basis of eyewitness accounts , the police said the suspect would be about 22 years of age , roughly 5.4 ft height with dark complexion . Information about the person can be passed on to the Punalur Dy . SP at 0475-2222595 or 9497990026 . Swami Asimanand , an accused in the 2007 LOC_Event bomb blast case , was on Friday remanded to the CBI custody for seven days by a local court . The prosecution had sought 15day police custody of Asimanand , but the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate allowed CBI to interrogate him for a week beginning tomorrow . The LOC_Event bomb blast accused , Swami Asimanand , currently in CBI custody in Andhra Pradesh on remand , is likely to be brought to Dangs district in south Gujarat in the next couple of days for investigation into his past activities in the region . The Swami , who was in-charge of the Shabari Dham in Subir village in Dangs district , spent nearly two decades in this tribal-dominated area . An activist of the Hindu Jagaran Manch , a voluntary organisation working for the revival of Hinduism , the Swami also launched a campaign in the district to re-convert the tribals to the Hindu fold . Shabari Kumbh Under the convenership of the Swami , the Vishwa Hindu Parishad had organised a massive Shabari Kumbh in the Subir village in 2006 . More than one lakh tribals from Dangs and other neighbouring districts in Gujarat , Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra had participated in the three-day extravaganza , also attended by top leaders of the BJP . A team of CBI officials is expected to accompany the Swami to Dangs to investigate his past activities in the region and look for his sympathisers who might have helped him with manpower and funds for carrying out the bomb blasts , the CBI sources said . Gujarat police sources , however , claimed that there was still no information about the CBI team 's visit to Dangs with the blast accused . Rapid-fire bombings and mortar strikes in mostly Shiite neighbourhoods of LOC_Event killed 76 people and wounded nearly 200 on Tuesday , calling into question the ability of Iraqi security forces to protect the Capital . The blasts at least 13 separate attacks came just two days after gunmen in LOC_Event held a Christian congregation hostage in a siege that ended with 58 people dead . On Tuesday morning , hundreds of Christians gathered at a downtown church to mourn their lost brethren . Two bombs , wrapped in a polythene bag , exploded at the entrance of the LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district on Thursday , a police official said . The explosives , lying on a heap of garbage , went off when a dog tried to open the bag in search of food , Deputy Superintendent of Police ( DSP ) , Rajgir , Santosh Kumar said . The dog died on the spot . There were nine other bombs in the bag , the DSP said . No person sustained injuries in the blasts , Mr. Kumar said , adding the station premises had been sealed and an investigation started . Nearly 70 worshippers have been killed in the suicide bombing at a mosque in LOC_Event in the LOC_Event area of LOC_Event on Friday afternoon . The teenaged bomber struck during Friday noon prayers the busiest hour in any mosque . The blast has been billed as the deadliest in two months , destroying the mosque located just a kilometre away from a big security camp . In fact , many of the dead were killed as the roof of the mosque caved in on the congregation that was leaving the premises after Friday prayers . Police fear that the actual death toll could be higher because many of the injured were ferried to various hospitals by their relatives as the health services of the district were stretched beyond capacity by the massive explosion . Later in the evening , terrorists struck at another mosque near LOC_Event . The terrorists attacked the mosque with grenades during Isha ( night ) prayers , killing three people and injuring 17 others . Rescue operations were hindered by a power failure at the time . TTP denies link The banned Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan has denied any link with the two blasts and has , instead , blamed foreign agents fighting security forces in the tribal areas for the two attacks . The TTP is also reported to have warned journalists of stern action if they levelled baseless charges . Police suspect the LOC_Event blast to be the handiwork of a local militant group retaliating against a lashkar ( a fighting unit of natives ) raised by security forces in the area to complement government efforts to weed out extremism . Even as investigations are on into Tuesday 's LOC_Event bomb blast , three crude bombs were discovered in LOC_Event , about 120 km from LOC_Event , on Thursday . The low-intensity bombs were defused by a bomb disposal squad . Though the situation in LOC_Event was described as normal , vigil has been stepped up . Uttar Pradesh Additional Director-General ( Law and Order ) Brij Lal said the crude bombs , wrapped in polythene , were kept in a waste disposal cart in a lane in LOC_Event . In the LOC_Event blast case , the forensic team returned to Agra after collecting material from the LOC_Event site . The results are expected to be known on Friday , Mr. Lal said . Though the blast probe had been transferred to the Anti-Terrorism Squad , a team of the National Investigation Agency and some Central government experts were also in LOC_Event in connection with the investigation , he said . Mr. Lal said there was no breakthrough in the case and no information on the involvement of any person or terrorist organisation in the blast . About the suspected mastermind , Shahnawaz , and the alleged involvement of the Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) , Mr. Lal said some IM members from Azamgarh were wanted in some cases , but their involvement in Tuesday 's blast was yet to be proved . Unconfirmed reports have stated that the police raided some places in Azamgarh district on Tuesday and Wednesday in a bid to find crucial leads . Reports also said a red corner notice had been issued against Dr. Shahnawaz . The Andhra Pradesh Assembly was informed on Monday that further investigations into the role of Swami Asimanand , who was arrested last month in connection with the LOC_Event bomb blast here , would continue after charge sheets against two other accused in the case were filed in a local court . A written reply given by Home Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy during question hour said Swami Asimanand and other suspects would be further grilled following the filing of charge sheets . All the accused , who were at large , would also be brought to book . Ms. Reddy said the CBI , which was probing the case , arrested 58 persons , including Swami Asimanand , in 38 cases revolving around the bomb blast . A charge sheet would soon be filed against Devender Gupta and Lokesh Sharma , who were arrested ahead of Swami Asimanand . Ms. Reddy furnished details of the 58 arrested persons and 49 others who were let off as their complicity in the cases was not established . She said the report of the Justice V. Bhaskara Rao Commission , which went into the firing after the blast , would be tabled in the House within six months . A Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years by a fast track court here on Tuesday for attempting to set off explosions in the city . Additional District and Sessions judge Mukesh Singhal , while awarding the sentence to Fayaz , 21 , called him a threat to society . The Uttar Pradesh police arrested him , on August 12 , 2008 , near the Ghaziabad railway station with explosives and firearms . The prosecution said Fayaz , a Srinagar resident , was wanted in several bomb blast cases in Kashmir . The death toll from violence in LOC_Event has risen to at least 41 following a series of bomb blasts , attacks on churches and reprisals , police said on Monday , as soldiers patrolled to prevent further unrest . Many houses were also burnt when clashes broke out on Sunday in the wake of Christmas Eve bomb blasts in the central city of LOC_Event that killed dozens , said state police commissioner Abdulrahman Akano . But he denied a community leader 's claim that 14 bodies had been recovered following Sunday 's clashes . The community leader also said 23 houses were found burnt along with a church and a mosque . My records show three killed , Mr. Akano told AFP of Sunday 's violence . He was vague on how many buildings were burnt and declined to provide further details . Mohammed Shittu , a leader in the Hausa Muslim community in LOC_Event who headed a search and rescue team , said 14 bodies were recovered and 23 houses were burnt following Sunday 's clashes . He said another 33 people were wounded . A mass burial was being prepared for the victims , he said . Christian leaders in the area could not immediately provide numbers of victims . At least 32 people were killed and 74 wounded when seven explosions went off in two different areas of LOC_Event on Friday evening , with many of the victims doing their Christmas shopping at the time . A church was also targeted , the governor has said . LOC_Event is in the so-called middle-belt region between the predominantly Muslim north and the mainly Christian south and has long been a hotspot of ethnic and religious friction in Nigeria . Mortar bombs , projectiles , grenades , rockets , detonators , artillery shells were unheard of in Shekowal and Kalewal village , until Indian Army 's biggest operation to dispose off scrap ammunitions began there in November . Over 30 kms from here , 738 residents and 2,500 animals of the villages are evacuated each day by the police to the nearby Gurdwara and other safe places so that the Army can transport , segregate and then dispose of over 17,000 pieces of ammunitions of unknown origin that made their way to the centre of the industrial capital of Punjab . Steel and other metal re-rolling units in Punjab had imported the scrap at throwaway prices between 1999 and 2004 . They had not specified the nature of the consignment and only mentioning scrap while taking permission for the imports . It was only during inspections by Customs that their hazardous nature was discovered at a dry port in the industrial hub of Ludhiana in 2004 but it took nearly six years to start the process of disposing it off . Bomb disposal is always high risk so we take extra precautions to ensure the safety of the men handling the ammunition , the villagers and even the cattle . We execute six to eight blasts every day and the project should be complete in two months . The sheer scale of the operation has given us a chance to train our team , said Lt. Col. Vinod Bhat , commanding officer of the 202 Bomb Disposal Unit ( BDU ) , about the Operation . The operation has been named Saiyam ' ( patience ) . We have been trained but each time a bomb is picked or placed there is considerable risk involved , that is why the remote controlled vehicles , telescopic handling machines , bomb suits etc are used , if proper precautions are taken there is little fear left , said a jawan in a bomb suit as he picked a rusted piece of metal and carefully placed it on a padded crane . The scrap was intended to be recycled for the steel industry and had the explosives gone off while melting the scrap , consequences would have been catastrophic . The ammunitions , weighing over 50 tonnes , was imported into the country in the garb of metal scrap to be recycled into steel . It was stored in five containers , four of which were 20 feet long and one was 40 feet in length at the dry port which is located inside a populated area in Ludhiana . Operation Saiyam will cost about Rs . 13.5 million and the authorities have levied this penalty on the eight private individuals who imported the scrap . Till now , Army officers have conducted over 60 blasts and destroyed over 1400 pieces . It is only through visual inspection that we saying that there are about 17,000 pieces of ammunitions . We have not counted them physically . The number can go up when we take actual stock of the situation in the coming days , he said . This is a very tedious process and consumes a long time . Our officers can not rush things and they have to be very patient . Therefore , we keep rotating our officers on different jobs so that monotony does not set in , Lt. Col. Bhat pointed out . The villagers have been told to keep away from their fields between 7 am and 5 pm till the operation is completed . Army aims to destroy the large calibre ammunition first so that the villages can be rehabilitates as soon as possible , the cooperation of the villagers is very important , we have 12 police posts to ensure that once the blasts begin , there is no one around the area and until we are left with very small calibre ammunitions , we wo n't take any risk , Lt Col Bhatt said adding the most dangerous are the hand grenades as most of them are without their pins . The Supreme Court on Monday ordered the acquittal of three main accused in the case relating to bomb blast at the RSS office in LOC_Event and directed their release forthwith . The TADA court in Chennai had awarded life imprisonment to them . A Bench of Justice B. Sudershan Reddy and Justice S.S. Nijjar allowed the appeals of Kaza Nizamuddin , Hyder Ali and Abubucker Siddique , challenging the life sentence and dismissed the CBI 's appeals questioning the acquittal of some of the accused by the TADA court . The prosecution case was that on August 6 , 1993 there were loud explosions , which resulted in the death of 11 persons , injuries to 7 others and complete demolition of the building . Writing the judgment , Justice Reddy said , Excepting for the confessional statements , admittedly , there is no other independent evidence with regard to the participation of the accused in the conspiracy and the particular role played by them . It is apparent that even according to the prosecution version , they could have only carried bombs made from gelatin . The Bench , accepting the arguments of senior counsel R. Natarajan and counsel G. Balaji appearing for the appellants said that the confessional statements reveals that what was purchased was only gelatin sticks from Gudiyatham and not RDX or PETN . The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad has finally established the Sri Lankan connection in the LOC_Event blast case . Mirza Himayat Inayat Baig , the alleged mastermind , underwent training to assemble explosive devices and cause their explosion ' in Colombo in March 2008 , says the charge sheet filed by the ATS against Baig and six other accused . He was trained by two of the accused , Faiyaz Kagzi and Zabiuddin Ansari . The charge sheet says Kagzi and Ansari gave Baig money or funding the purchase of explosive devices and the travel of indoctrinated Muslim youth to Pakistan for training . After training in Pakistan , Baig returned to India and lived in the non-descript Udgir taluk in Maharashtra 's Latur district under concealed identity as Yusuf and Hasan . In the last week of January 2010 , on instructions from two of the accused Riyaz Bhatkal and Iqbal Bhatkal , the other two accused Yasin Bhatkal and Mohsin Chowdhary met Baig in Udgir to discuss , finalise and put into execution the plan to cause the bomb explosion at LOC_Event , according to the charge sheet . On January 31 , Baig conducted a recce and decided the timing of planting the explosive device . In the first week of February , Yasin and Chowdhary went to Udgir again to give finishing touches to the plan . Thereafter , the duo accompanied Baig to Mumbai , where a haversack and a Nokia 1100 model mobile phone ( which was used to trigger the explosion ) were bought . Yasin and Chowdhary assembled the explosive device at the Global Internet Cafe in Udgir . The charge sheet says the three conspirators then travelled to Latur , taking private transport , and again from Udgir to Latur in a state corporation bus on February 13 , the day of the blast . Yasin proceeded to the LOC_Event and planted the bomb at about 5 p.m. , and it went off at 6.50 p.m. , killing 17 people . All the accused , including Baig , are part of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India and the Lashkar-e-Taiba , the charge sheet states . Baig is also believed to be an operator of the terror outfit , Indian Mujahideen . The ATS contends that Baig had used his friend Rehman 's bank account to make various transactions from Udgir . He used 25 e-mail IDs to communicate with the other accused , while the plan was being hatched . In pursuance of the conspiracy , ' Baig acquired forged voter cards under two names , Khayum Ayub Shaikh and Immadoddin Ahmed Shaikh , the charge sheet states . He had even a forged handicapped person card . The Latur police said Khurshid Alam , who allegedly helped Baig acquire the forged voter card under the name of Khayum Ayub Shaikh , is on the run . Falsely implicated Commenting on the charge sheet , Baig 's lawyer A. Rehman said his client was falsely implicated . Baig was given the charge sheet on Monday in the first class judicial magistrate court . The case is now moved to the sessions . Miscreants hurled crude bomb at the Radhakrishnan Hostel of the Khallikote Autonomous College in the city on Thursday night . A watchman of the hostel and a student were injured by the bomb blast . The miscreants managed to escape from the spot . It tensed up the Khallikote Autonomous College campus and its hostels as the students demanded security for them . According to sources , the miscreants who hurled bombs at the hostel were three in number . They came on a single bike to the hostel campus in the heart of the city at around 10.30 p.m. and they escaped on it after the bomb blast . The injured were identified as a student named Ananga Lima and the watchman Harekrushna Behera . Personnel of the Town police station and the Berhampur Superintendent of Police ( SP ) Shafeen Ahmed K. rushed to the spot to interact with the students of the hostel to pacify their anger after the bomb blast . The principal of the college also reached the spot . Police had not arrested anyone in relation to the attack till afternoon . But one person had been taken in by police for interrogation . It was suspected that quarrel between an inmate of the hostel with some members of a criminal gang of the city had led to this bomb blast , said some inhabitants of the hostel . A +2 student of the hostel had entered into an altercation with two youths in Gate Bazar area . He had come back to hostel and informed his friends about possible escalation of tension due to the incident . India on Monday strongly condemned the twin suicide bomb blasts in LOC_Event earlier in the day , with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh writing to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev to assure him of India 's solidarity with the country in combating the forces of violence and terrorism . It is with great anguish that I have learnt of the bomb blasts in LOC_Event , which have led to the loss of so many innocent lives . This is a most tragic and horrific act of violence . At this difficult hour our thoughts are with you , the people of Russia and the families and friends of the victims of this terrible tragedy . On behalf of the Government and people of India , I convey our deepest condolences , Dr. Singh said in the letter to Mr. Medvedev . The Ministry of External Affairs has termed the killing of civilians as targeted violence and hoped the perpetrators of these senseless attacks will be brought to justice . Scourge of terrorism The Government reiterates its conviction that only collective efforts by the international community can combat the scourge of terrorism that the world is facing today , the Foreign Office statement added . External Affairs Minister S.M. Krishna said : India condemns these horrendous attacks and my sympathies go out to those who have been killed and who have suffered in this attack . The two suicide bomb attacks that killed 38 people and wounded over 60 in LOC_Event on Monday targeted the city 's busy subway system , a favourite target of Chechen terrorists . In the past six years militants mounted five attacks on the Moscow Metro . In terms of casualties , Monday 's bombings were the worst attack on the capital since February 2004 , when a suicide bombing killed at least 41 people on a metro train . There have been no terrorist attacks in LOC_Event since August 2004 , when a suicide bomber blew herself up outside a subway station , killing 10 people . As in February 2004 , on Monday women suicide bombers set off their homemade bombs strapped to their bodies when they were inside trains . In 2004 , the blast occurred when the train was travelling in a tunnel , which explains why it caused more casualties than the current two blasts that ripped through trains parked at stations . Eye-witnesses said that surprisingly there was little panic among passengers and this helped avoid more casualties as thousands of people were evacuated outside . Both metro stations bombed on Monday Lubyanka and Park Kultury are busy interchange stations and are packed during rush hour . They are situated in the city centre and the blasts not only halted train service on several lines , but also paralysed all traffic above as police sealed off streets to give free passage to dozens of ambulances that rushed wounded passengers to hospital . Even as Russian authorities strengthened security and installed closed circuit TV on all stations and in trains , officials conceded it was impossible to provide 100 per cent protection to the underground transport system . Experts said it was not feasible to set up airport-style screening that could detect explosives and metal objects as this would disrupt subway traffic . However , thanks to CCTV police could promptly identify the two suicide bombers and their three accomplices and launch a manhunt for them . Interestingly , none of the metro blasts caused much damage to the subway stations themselves . On Monday , both bombed stations reopened for traffic in the afternoon . The Moscow Metro has 298.8 km of route length , 12 lines and 180 stations ; on a normal weekday it carries about 8 million passengers . The Anti-Terrorist Squad ( ATS ) of the U.P. police arrested an Indian Mujahideen operative and accused in the LOC_Event serial bomb blasts , Salman alias Chhotu , in Siddhartnagar district on Friday night . He carried a reward of Rs .1 lakh on his head announced by the Delhi police for his involvement in the blasts on September 13 , 2008 . ADG ( Law and Order ) Brij Lal told reporters here on Saturday that Salman had been named an accused in five FIRs lodged by the Delhi police . A team of Delhi police had reached Lucknow to secure his transit remand for further investigations . Mr. Lal said Salman , who belongs to Sanjarpur village in Azamgarh district , was enrolled in the Bachelor of Computer Applications ( BCA ) course on the Lucknow campus of Sikkim University , Manipal , in 2008 . He was also involved in the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event on May 22 , 2007 , blasts in the Varanasi civil court on November 23 , 2007 , the May 13 , 2008 bomb blasts in LOC_Event , as well as the serial blasts in LOC_Event on July 26 , 2008 . Following the LOC_Event blasts , Salman slipped away to Nepal via Basti and Siddhartnagar districts of Uttar Pradesh . Three bombs ripped through traditional New Year festivities in LOC_Event 's biggest city of LOC_Event on Thursday , killing nine people and injuring 94 others , said officials and state television . There was no indication as to who was behind the blasts , which occurred at about 3 p.m. near some 20 pavilions erected for the celebrations at the sprawling LOC_Event . In the past , the government has blamed bomb blasts on exiled anti-government groups and insurgents . Ten persons including a television journalist were killed in a suicide bomb attack on a LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's capital LOC_Event on Friday morning . The blast took place when a large number of people had gathered around the hospital to protest the killing of a member of the minority Shia community . Besides the journalist , the dead includes two deputy superintendents of police , two policemen and a constable of the Federal Investigation Agency ( FIA ) . Barring the FIA constable , the journalist and police personnel were present at the civil hospital in view of the tense situation prevailing there after word broke of the targeted killing of Arshad Zaidi , son of a prominent Balochistan Shia Council leader . Mr. Zaidi who worked at a local bank was shot near his office and was shifted to the hospital where he succumbed to his wounds . The blast was triggered in the melee of protests and eye-witnesses said the loud explosion was followed by gunfire . At least 35 others were injured in the blast . A second twin suicide bombing in LOC_Event in three days killed 11 people , including nine policemen in LOC_Event on Wednesday . A car bomb went off in the centre of LOC_Event , in the Russian republic of LOC_Event when traffic police stopped the car for a check . The blast , equivalent to about 200 kg of TNT , killed two policemen and a woman on the sidewalk . It also partially destroyed a school building . Fortunately , there were no children inside as March 31 was the last day of spring school holidays . Half an hour later a suicide bomber dressed in police uniform blew himself up in the midst of police officers gathered on the site of the first explosion . The second blast killed eight people , including the town police chief . Dagestan , a predominantly Muslim region of 2.6 million people bordering Chechnya , has been a focal point of low intensity insurgency that has engulfed entire North Caucasus in recent years . The LOC_Event bombing came on the heels of a dual attack on the Moscow Metro on Monday that killed 39 and wounded over 70 people . Similar tactics used in both attacks suicide bombers detonating explosives within less than an hour of each other prompted Prime Minister Vladimir Putin to suggest that they could have been directed from a single centre . I do n't rule out that the same bandits are behind both attacks , Mr. Putin told a cabinet meeting on Wednesday . Russian authorities blamed the attacks on Islamist militants operating in North Caucasus even as nobody has yet claimed responsibility . The attacks have raised fears that Russia is facing a new wave of terror . A Chechen rebel leader , Said Buryatsky , killed earlier this month , is believed to have trained a martyrs ' brigade of 30 suicide bombers . Counting Wednesday 's attacks , 19 martyrs are still alive . A series of bomb attacks mainly targeting Shia worshippers killed 58 people on Friday , including 25 near the main LOC_Event , said officials . The violence demonstrated militants remain a potent force days after Iraqi authorities announced the killing of the top two Al-Qaeda in Iraq leaders in what they described as a major blow . Extremists are also seeking to exploit political deadlock after the inconclusive March 7 parliamentary election and ignite sectarian warfare as U.S. forces prepare to go home . The biggest of Friday 's bombings took place just a few hundred yards from the compound of LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's vast slum of LOC_Event as worshippers gathered for Friday prayers . Two car bombs and a roadside bomb exploded around 1:30 p.m. , killing 25 people and wounding an estimated 150 , according to hospital and police officials . The blasts left blood streaming down muddy streets . Men carried victims away using bed sheets as makeshift stretchers and loaded them into the backs of trucks and rushed them to the hospital . One man fled carrying a young girl whose pink dress was stained with blood . Many who gathered at the scene pelted Iraqi security officials with stones when they arrived in the area , frustrated with their apparent inability to secure the city . Security officials fired in the air to disperse the crowd . Bombings elsewhere in LOC_Event most of them targeting Shia worshippers killed 33 other people in one of the deadliest days the country has seen in weeks . Country made bombs hidden in the attic of a kitchen exploded reducing the concrete house to rubble at LOC_Event in LOC_Event mandal of LOC_Event on Wednesday morning . No casualties were reported as there was none in the house then . The house belongs to one Vasanthamani . Her husband , who died a couple of years ago , was reportedly involved in faction feuds and the bombs may have been hidden by him then . The walls of the rear portion of the house where others were living suffered cracks due to the impact of the blast . Paddy stored in the house was also destroyed completely . According to Guntakal DSP Victor efforts were on to ascertain the cause for the explosion . He said Vasanthamani feigned ignorance about the bombs . The Uravakonda police are investigating . Six persons including a 12-year-old child were injured in a political group clash at LOC_Event of LOC_Event under Golanthara police station in LOC_Event district on Thursday . The clash occurred between the supporters of the Biju Janata Dal ( BJD ) and the Congress at around 11.30 a.m. Around 15 crude bombs were blasted in the village , which injured the six persons . The injured persons were provided treatment at the Primary Health Centre at Girisola . It is alleged that the injured persons were BJD supporters and the Congress followers had hurled crude bombs at them . Armed police personnel were rushed to the village to check aggravation of tension . The Sub-Divisional Police Officer ( SDPO ) , Brahmananda Gagarin Mohanty also reached the village to take note of the situation . One platoon of armed police was deployed in the village . Violent clashes with the use of crude bombs have continued in regular intervals at this village since the last Assembly and Lok Sabha elections . Since the elections four clashes have occurred at the village . On the day of the election on April 16 last year , 10 persons were injured in a clash in front of a polling booth at the village . The injured included the BJD leader and Chikiti block chairman , K.Narasingha Murty . Incidents of bombing over political rivalry had also occurred at the village on the day of Pongal . Supporters of both sides had again confronted in the village with the hurling of crude bombs to hamper the festivities of Holi . A violent clash had also occurred at the village on December 12 last year . Four persons had been injured . Although the police and administrative officials have tried to bring in peace at this village with the formation of a peace committee , till now peace has deluded this village which remains politically divided . The much-awaited trial in the May 2008 LOC_Event serial blasts case is likely to begin in a Special Court here on April 10 , nearly 18 months after the accused were arrested from different towns in Uttar Pradesh following the controversial Batla House encounter in Delhi , in which two young men were killed . Though the Special Court was established at the Bani Park Courts Complex here in December last year and a presiding officer of the rank of District and Sessions Judge was appointed to it , it was not functioning for want of infrastructure and staff . Only recently , the Rajasthan High Court has ordered transfer of case files to it with the first hearing scheduled for April 10 . The Supreme Court had on February 22 issued notices to several States , including Rajasthan , asking them about the progress of special courts for speedy trial of terror cases . The notices were issued on a petition moved by nine accused in blasts cases across the country lodged in the Sabarmati Central Jail in Gujarat . The matter has been pending in the court of the Additional District Judge ( Fast Track ) No. 1 , where the trial in a related case of 13 persons from Kota , Baran and Jodhpur facing charges of involvement in the conspiracy for blasts and taking part in the activities of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India is in progress . The accused in the main case , in which eight FIRs have been registered , are Shahbaz Ahmed from Lucknow and Mohammed Sarvar and Saif-ur-Rehman from Azamgarh , who have been arraigned on the basis of interrogation of Mohammed Saif arrested from L-18 flat of Batla House in Delhi after the encounter on September 19 , 2008 in mysterious circumstances . The Anti-Terrorism Squad ( ATS ) of Rajasthan police has obtained arrest warrants against several others with the claim that they are absconding , while some of the accused face charges of involvement in bomb blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event as well . Mohammed Saif is an accused in as many as 40 blasts-related FIRs . The prosecution has provided a list of 72 witnesses to the court here for recording of evidence with the charge-sheets filed against the accused . While Saif-ur-Rehman has since been shifted to Ahmedabad to face charges in the July 2008 blasts there , other accused languishing in the Central Jail here are mired in a prolonged legal battle to prove their innocence . Voluminous charge-sheets Sarvar 's counsel Paikar Farooq told The Hindu here on Thursday that the voluminous charge-sheets running into hundreds of pages contained documents such as post-mortem reports of the 70 victims of blasts , injury reports , X-ray reports and photographs of destruction caused by the powerful explosions . This material does not provide any direct evidence of involvement of the accused in the crime , he said . The ATS has neither recovered anything substantial from the accused nor provided concrete evidence to prove that they came to LOC_Event on May 13 , 2008 , to carry out the blasts . The 72 witnesses who will depose and will be cross-examined include persons such as shopkeepers of the Walled City , policemen , owners of cycle stores , medical jurists , relatives of the deceased and the injured . Suicide bombers came disguised as security personnel Attackers attempt to enter building TTP warns of more such attacks : Preliminary investigations into the attack on the U.S. Consulate General in LOC_Event on Monday reveal that it was with the suicide bombers disguised as security personnel ramming their bomb-laden vehicle into the security picket . In the confusion caused by the first blast , their associates lobbed grenades triggering a series of blasts and engaged in a gun battle with security personnel while attempting to enter the building . The U.S. Embassy confirmed that an attempt was made to enter the consulate premises . It said , The coordinated attack involved a vehicle suicide bomb and terrorists attempting to enter the building using grenades and weapons fire '' . Stunned that the terrorists had managed to get as far as they did given the multiple layers of security around the mission shopkeepers in the nearby downtown Sadar area downed their shutters as security personnel cordoned off roads leading to the consulate and the Peshawar headquarters of the ISI which had faced a similar attack last year . The blast was so powerful that it formed a huge crater in the road and brought down a boundary wall . Claiming that they had struck at the U.S. mission to avenge the drone attacks in North Waziristan , the Tehrik-i-Taliban ( TTP-Pakistan wing of the Taliban ) TTP spokesman told AFP that there would be more such attacks on any place where there are Americans . The attack on the American mission comes less than two months after the U.S. diplomatic presence in Peshawar was elevated from Consulate to Consulate General status to demonstrate the growing importance and broadening of bilateral government cooperation and people-to-people relations . Even as unconfirmed reports of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad having identified two suspects in the LOC_Event bomb blast case are doing rounds in media circles , LOC_Event Police Commissioner Satyapal Singh on Thursday refused to comment on the matter . Mr. Singh , who was appointed by Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram as the official spokesperson for the investigation soon after the February 13 blast , told journalists here , I would not like to comment as the matter is being discussed in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly . Asked if he could reveal the number of people identified or their names , he said , I can not tell you anything at the moment . But we will share all the information when the time is right . Revealing too much right now may hamper the probe . However , he hinted that significant progress had been made . An assistant driver was injured in a bomb blast triggered on the tracks on Wednesday , even as the two-day bandh by the CPI ( Maoist ) affected train movement at various points . The CPI ( Maoist ) targeted a goods train carrying petroleum product in the wee hours of Wednesday on the LOC_Event section under the LOC_Event division of South East Railway . The bomb on the track shattered the windshield of the loco injuring assistant driver M.K.D. Poddar . Movement of trains was suspended as the blast caused a two-foot deep crater and damaged two concrete sleepers . The Maoists caused a second blast , similar in intensity , on the same section about a km away . It damaged two sleepers and resulted in a two-foot crater . After security clearance , restoration work was undertaken . Sabotage thwarted Another attempt at sabotage on the LOC_Event late on Tuesday night was thwarted by an alert gateman after he sighted about 10 to 15 people placing banners and flags and posters saying that a bomb had been planted on the track . Patrol vans rushed in and detected two bombs within a space of a kilometre on the LOC_Event in LOC_Event district under the LOC_Event division of East Central Railway . Bomb detection and disposal squads arrived from Gaya and defused both the explosives . Train services resumed after a delay of over seven hours . The affected trains included Duronto and Rajdhani series . The disruptions led to cancellation of 11 trains and rescheduling of nine others . Eighty-six others , including five Rajdhanis , were regulated . Rajasthan ATS suspects Ajmer-Malegaon-Hyderabad link He is yet to be arrested , says Rajasthan Home Minister Centre of activity seemingly was Madhya Pradesh . The Anti-Terrorism Squad of Rajasthan is working on the theory that there is a link between the group which carried out the bomb blast at LOC_Event in October 2007 and the forces behind the LOC_Event almost a year later as well as the explosions at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event . It has identified the contacts and after their recent arrests is in hot pursuit of the person who manufactured the bomb used in the blast at LOC_Event on the Dargah premises . The mastermind behind the LOC_Event blast , the bomb maker , has been identified . He is yet to be arrested , said Rajasthan Home Minister Shanti Dhariwal talking to The Hindu here on Saturday . The people involved in this case have had involvement in the other bomb blast cases too , he said , adding , The centre of their activity was seemingly Madhya Pradesh . Rajasthan ATS has reached up to them . They have identified the persons involved . ATS has collected some important clues , Mr. Dhariwal said . However , one lost link in the whole case appears to be Sunil Joshi , who was an RSS pracharak in Madhya Pradesh 's Mhow area with whom Devendra Gupta , the first suspect arrested in the LOC_Event case , was associated . Joshi , a resident of Indore , was killed in Dewas in December 2007 . The call details of Gupta indicate that both were in touch . Joshi , reportedly the zila pracharak ( worker ) of RSS in Mhow , had some confrontation with the Congress president of Mhow who later got killed . The murders of the Congress leader 's nephew and that of an eyewitness followed . They are all connected . Col. Purohit , arrested for LOC_Event blast , has confessed that Sunil Joshi had organised the Dargah operation with the help of Devendra Gupta , Mr. Dhariwal observed . Col. Purohit was reportedly informed about the role of Sunil Joshi by Asimanand Gupta , who operated in the name of Ramesh Kumar at some places , procured SIM cards under false identities from Jamtada , Asansol and Chittaranjan . The SIM used in the bomb which went off at LOC_Event was procured by him in name of Babulal Yadav . Though the RSS leadership in New Delhi vehemently denied involvement of RSS functionaries in the LOC_Event blast , Mr.Dhariwal was equally emphatic . A city court on Monday granted police custody of Devender Gupta , one of the accused persons , who had allegedly conspired to carry out explosions in LOC_Event in LOC_Event three years ago . He will be in CBI custody till June 30 . The magistrate issued the orders after the CBI filed a petition in the court on Friday seeking custody of Gupta to elicit more information about the blast . Another petition to conduct test identification parade of Lokesh Sarma , the other person arrested in the case , was also filed . Gupta , along with his associate Sarma , were produced before the court by the CBI on Thursday . The court sent them to two weeks judicial remand following which they were lodged in Chanchalguda jail . They were earlier arrested for alleged involvement in the bomb blast at LOC_Event and lodged in Ajmer Central Prison . They were brought from Ajmer prison on a prisoner 's transit warrant . The accused are members of the Abhinav Bharat , a Hindu fundamentalist organisation . CBI officials will submit court documents to authorities of Chanchalguda prison on Tuesday and take Gupta into their custody , said CBI Senior Public Prosecutor T. Venkata Ramana . The identification of Sarma will be conducted in the prison on June 26 to establish his link in the blast . The agency has lined up a few persons who claim they had seen the two accused . Twin low-intensity bomb blasts hit a CD market in LOC_Event , LOC_Event , on Saturday , wounding four people and causing havoc in the area , police said . They said the target of blasts was one of the busiest music and CD markets in the city centre 's LOC_Event . The government has declared the Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) , suspected to be a shadow outfit of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India ( SIMI ) and Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Taiba , a terrorist outfit . The IM is allegedly involved in the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . It has been added to the list of terror groups under the Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act , 1967 . An order has been issued adding the Indian Mujahideen and all its formations and front organisations to the list of Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act , 1967 , the Home Ministry said in a statement on Friday . Under the Act , the government has banned 34 groups and declared them terror outfits . The IM came to light after the February 23 , 2005 blast in LOC_Event . Its hand was suspected in the incident . In 2008 , it was allegedly involved in many terror attacks . Intelligence agencies believe that the outfit is also a front group of the Harkat-ul-Jihad-al Islami ( HuJI ) . A sleeper cell of the IM was suspected to be behind the LOC_Event blast earlier this year in which two foreign nationals and seven others were killed and 60 injured . The attack at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event was similar to the group 's earlier strikes in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event in 2008 , say sources in intelligence agencies . Judge of the Special Court for Bomb Blast Cases Ganesan on Monday sentenced P. Venkatachalapathy to undergo life sentence in connection with the murder of his wife Hemambigai . According to prosecution , Hemambigai was hacked to death by the accused at Singanallur on March 14 , 2009 over a wordy duel while her mother sustained injuries . Investigating Officer in the case , Inspector , T.H. Ganesh arrested the accused . The Judge also ordered Venkatachalapathy to pay a fine of Rs . 10,000 and ten years Rigorous Imprisonment and a fine of Rs . 7,500 for the charge of attempt to murder . More than 24 hours after the bomb attack on Uttar Pradesh Minister Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi in Allahabad on Monday , the Special Task Force and the Anti-Terrorist Squad have not got any clue to the motive . The remnants of the explosives and the Scooty which together with two motorcycles were damaged in the fire caused by the blast have been sent to Agra for examination by a team of the Forensic Science Laboratory . The vehicle 's chassis number was found erased . A First Information Report , under Section 307 of the IPC and Section 3/4 of the Explosive Act , has been filed at the Kotwali police station . Six persons , including Mr. Nandi , were injured in the blast near the Institutional Finance Minister 's residence at LOC_Event . Rakesh Malviya , one of those who were with the Minister when the blast occurred , died of injuries . The post-mortem was conducted on Tuesday . On Monday , Additional Director-General ( Law and Order ) Brij Lal denied that the blast claimed a life , but he confirmed Malviya 's death on Tuesday . Mr. Nandi was shifted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow on Monday night , and his condition is said to be stable . However , the condition of his police gunner , Sanjay , and that of the Allahabad correspondent of an English daily was critical . The bomb , thought to have been kept in a two-wheeler parked near Mr. Nandi 's residence , was triggered by a remote control device . The investigating teams were uncertain about the type of explosives used . Mr. Lal ruled out the involvement of Maoists in the attack . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) Special Court on Wednesday declared two accused , Mohammed Azar and P.P. Usman , as proclaimed offenders ' in the LOC_Event twin bomb blast cases . The court made the proclamation on a petition filed by the NIA seeking to make them proclaimed offenders ' as the agen cy 's efforts to trace them had come to naught . Meanwhile , the court extended the judicial remand of T. Nazir and other accused in the case . The Bombay High Court on Monday ordered that Sadhvi Pragnya Thakur and 10 others accused in the 2008 Malegaon bomb blasts case face trial under MCOCA . Samajwadi Party leader Dilip Mishra , lodged in Agra jail in a murder case , was on Monday produced before a local court here in connection with the bomb attack on an Uttar Pradesh minister last week and remanded to 14 days ' judicial custody . Chief Judicial Magistrate Abdul Jaleel remanded Mishra and his associate Mahendra , a co-accused in the bomb attack case who was brought here from Badaun , to judicial custody till August 2 with the direction that both of them be lodged at the Naini Central Jail near here during this period . Both the accused had moved applications before the court claiming that they faced threat to their lives from the ruling Bahujan Samaj Party , following which the CJM also directed the district police to ensure their security . Mishra has been named as the main accused in an FIR registered in connection with the bomb explosion outside the residence of Minister for Institutional Finance and Judicial and Stamp Fees Nand Gopal Gupta Nandi on July 12 . One person was killed in the blast , while the minister , his gunner and a journalist were seriously injured . Old acrimony Mishra , who is also the president of Chaka block of the district 's trans-Yamuna region , has had a long-standing acrimony with the Minister . While Mishra has been lodged in Agra jail for quite some time for murder of his own security personnel , two of his aides actively involved in executing the blast were arrested here last week . The arrested duo during interrogation had allegedly confessed that the blast was carried out at the behest of Mishra and Mahendra and that a notorious sharp-shooter Rajesh Pilot had been hired for making the remote-controlled explosive device . Pilot is yet to be traced by the police . At least 41 people were killed and nearly 175 injured in the suicide bomb attack on the LOC_Event complex in LOC_Event on Thursday night . The bombings at the LOC_Event are being seen as not just an attack on a crowded place but an assault on the tolerant Sufi tradition . The bombers one of whom has been identified as a local by his brothers struck close to midnight on Thursday , the main time of congregation at the shrine . On Thursdays , devotees queue up through the night in the hope of blessings of the Sufi saint revered as the guardian of Pakistan 's cultural capital . The bombers detonated their suicide jackets separately ; killing many on the spot and seriously injuring others . Since the gathering was nearly 3,000 strong , the explosions triggered a commotion and many were injured in the stampede that ensued . The first blast took place in the basement and the second in front of the shrine 's main building . Though security had been increased recently and the shrine had made its own arrangements to complement the security provided by the Punjab government , the bombers managed to penetrate with suicide jackets bearing 10 kg explosives each . Eyewitnesses claimed the police had described the first blast as a cracker burst . On the other hand , the Data Darbar administration called it an explosion in the generator and asked devotees to continue with their prayers . Lahore 's hospitals were hard-pressed to deal with the scale of injuries and appeals for blood donation were made as the injured were being wheeled in . Police claimed to have recovered the heads of the bombers and one of them was identified on Friday as Usman , a young local who had gone missing some months ago . He is said to have been drawn to a religious outfit . Till late Friday night , no organisation had claimed responsibility for the attack . In fact , the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan ( the Pakistan wing of the Taliban ) has denied any involvement according to AFP . We are not responsible for these attacks . This is a conspiracy by foreign secret agencies . You know we do not attack public places , a TTP spokesman said . A five-year-old boy was killed and 22 other passengers , the driver and the assistant driver of the Kolkata-bound 2518 Garib Rath were injured when the engine , along with a power car and five passenger coaches , derailed after a blast on the track between LOC_Event and LOC_Event station in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district in early hours of Thursday . The victim has been identified as Durlabh Chetia of Guwahati . His body was brought home later in the afternoon . The train left the Guwahati station at 9 p.m. on Wednesday and the blast occurred at 2.20 a.m. on Thursday . Another blast occurred on the track at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district but there was no casualty . Security forces recovered a powerful bomb from a railway bridge at Pachnoi in the district . The National Democratic Front of Boroland ( Ranjan Daimary faction ) has claimed responsibility for the serial blasts on the track and warned of carrying out more such attacks . It asked the people of northeast not to undertake train journey . In a statement issued through e-mail , Publicity and Information Secretary of the insurgent outfit B. Ohnjalu said the Boroland Army , carried out the blasts as it lost its patience over randomly killing of innocent Bodo youth in the name of the NDFB and unequal treatment to its chief Ranjan Daimary , who is now in judicial custody.Security forces recovered four bombs in the past 24 hours . The police have urged the people to be vigilant and cautioned that Guwahati may one of the prime targets of the insurgent outfit . The blast occurred hours after the State government sounded a red alert on Wednesday following intelligence inputs that an NDFB ( Ranjan Daimary faction ) hit squad has entered the State in a bid to carry out sabotage activities , including serial blasts on railway track , targeting passenger trains . Following the State government advice , the Northeast Frontier Railway ( NFR ) either cancelled or rescheduled running of several passenger trains on Wednesday night . Chief Public Relations Officer ( CPRO ) of the Northeast Frontier Railway ( NFR ) S. Hajong said an accident relief medical team , led by Divisional Railway Manager of the Alipurduar Division , had reached the site . NFR general manager Shiv Kumar , along with senior officials , left for the accident site to supervise relief and rescue operations . Trains cancelled Following the blast , the NFR cancelled running of seven pairs of passenger trains on the Rangiya Mukongselek section and another seven pairs of passenger trains on Rangiya-New Bongaigaon with effect from Thursday until further security advice . The NFR also diverted all passenger carrying trains to Kamakhya-Goalpara town-New Bongaigaon route . People's Democratic Party ( PDP ) leader Abdul Nasir Maudany was taken by the Bangalore City police to Kodagu on Friday . Highly-placed sources in the city police told The Hindu that a team of four officials left by road with Mr. Maudany . Conspiracy The team wants to confront Mr. Maudany with a place in Hosathotha where they say the conspiracy to carry out the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event in July 2008 was hatched . Ginger plantation It is at a ginger plantation at Hosathotha that Mr. Maudany is supposed to have met T. Nazir , the prime accused in the blasts in which a woman was killed and 20 persons were injured . The team also wants to investigate whether the plantation at Hosathotha was being used as a covert meeting place for hatching conspiracies . Mr. Maudany and the police team are expected to be back in Bangalore on Monday . Statements recorded Meanwhile , the city police have recorded the statement of 255 witnesses in connection with the serial blasts . Since more than a dozen accused in the blasts are PDP members , the finger of suspicion pointed at Mr. Maudany , a senior police official on condition of anonymity told The Hindu . Sources said the two-day interrogation of Mr. Maudany had so far not revealed anything substantial . Apart from admitting to having spoken to Nazir from Kerala , Mr. Maudany had denied that either he or his wife , Soofiya , had any role in the serial blasts . The sources said they would take a decision on seeking an extension of Mr. Maudany 's remand after he returned from Kodagu . Legal aid forum Staff Reporter writes from Kochi : The PDP will form a legal aid forum to secure justice for Mr. Maudany . The forum would have as its members organisations and individuals who support the cause of the arrested leader , Poonthura Siraj , working chairman of the party , told presspersons . If Mr. Maudany was not given bail before the end of the Ramzan fasting period , the organisation would start an agitation on the Kerala-Karnataka border , Mr. Siraj said . Police interrogation of People's Democratic Party leader Abdul Nasir Maudany has revealed his role in the April 17 , 2010 twin explosions near the LOC_Event in the city ahead of an IPL cricket match , Karnataka Home Minister V.S. Acharya said on Tuesday . He was replying to a query at a press conference here . Dr. Acharya said Mr. Maudany 's links with the other main accused in the 2008 Bangalore serial bomb blasts case were also established during interrogation . Seventeen persons , including nine police personnel , were injured when two low-intensity IEDs went off outside the stadium ahead of a match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Mumbai Indians . Following the blasts , two semi-final matches were shifted to Mumbai . On the investigation into the 2008 blasts , Dr. Acharya said , We are confident that we will get the full information on the conspiracy . He indicated that the police would seek extension of police custody for Mr. Maudany , who was arrested in this case by a Karnataka police team in Kerala on August 17 . He was remanded to police custody by a Bangalore magistrate till August 26 . Ten days are not sufficient to collect all information from the accused , the Minister said . Last week , Mr. Maudany was taken to Kodagu , to explore his alleged links there . Hinting that the probe was yet to be completed , Dr. Acharya said , The PDP chairman is on fast during day on account of Ramzan and interrogation is held in between . A scene-of-occurrence examination report filed by an explosives expert of the State Forensic Sciences Laboratory here has indicated that at least three types of crude bombs were used during rioting at LOC_Event on May 17 , 2009 . Six persons were killed and 30 injured in the violence and police firing . Assistant Director ( Explosives ) P.D. Somarajan , who authored the report , said he had dismantled a powerful bomb fashioned out of four sticks of gelignite connected to a safety fuse and a detonator at the scene of violence on May 18 . The bomb was found in the compound of a house , the front portion of which was damaged in an explosion . The device had the potency to destroy an area of 10 square metres . Inter-State links Earlier , representatives of the Kerala Police Officers ' Association had deposed before the inquiry commission , headed by District Judge K. Ramakrishnan , that the gelignite sticks recovered from the scene were of the same type used for the blasts in Hyderabad and Jaipur in 2007 and 2008 , respectively . Those blasts have been suspected to be the handiwork of a home-grown terrorist outfit . Mr. Somarajan 's report said he found two launcher-type explosive devices . On ignition the bomb will be exploded and the container will act as a missile . Severe burst and burning effect will result owing to the explosion of these types of bombs , it said . The forensic expert recovered a plastic bucket , which , he said , contained the residue of explosive materials . The container could have been used for carrying crude throw-down type bombs designed to explode on impact when hurled against a hard surface . He also saw signs of multiple explosions at a place of worship in the locality . The burst portions of different types of improvised explosive devices were strewn all over the area , the report said . The metallic portions of the crude bombs , though rusted , indicated that they were from recently exploded bombs . Some of the bomb fragments bore the smell of petroleum products . The lab 's experts also recovered a glass bottle of 375-ml capacity . It was seen fitted with a wick and contained some inflammable liquid . James Philipose , Director of the lab , was present along with senior police officials when the scene of crime was examined . Two near-simultaneous car bombs rocked the Iraqi capital on Sunday , killing at least 29 people and wounding 111 in the city 's deadliest day in a month . The violence was the worst to hit LOC_Event since U.S. troops declared an official end to combat operations on September 1 , and comes with no new government yet formed since a March general election . The twin blasts struck near the LOC_Event in LOC_Event and in the residential district of LOC_Event in the west of the capital at around 10:10 a.m. ( 0710 GMT ) , said AFP journalists and security officials . An Interior Ministry official put the death toll at 29 19 in LOC_Event and 10 in LOC_Event . It was a minibus the driver stopped and told people nearby that he was going to go see a doctor , said a witness to the LOC_Event bombing . A few minutes later , it exploded . An AFP journalist at the scene said the blast , against a National Security department office building , left a crater three metres in diameter and that security forces had cordoned off the area . In LOC_Event , another AFP journalist reported seeing several bloodied bodies on the street , with many cars burned out and two buildings destroyed , while nearby houses were also badly damaged . Also on Sunday , a father and son were killed when a magnetic bomb was attached to their car in LOC_Event , LOC_Event . At least 10 people were killed and double the number injured in a bomb blast at a bakery in the LOC_Event area of the LOC_Event province on Sunday night . The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan claimed responsibility for the blast . Just a 100-metre stretch in the LOC_Event area here shows the contrast . The place where a bomb exploded on Wednesday evening has been cordoned off . Shops on the road are closed and so is the school which stands just a wall away from the bus stop where the IED exploded . But barely 100 metres away , other shops are open and business is as usual . Yes . There was a blast there yesterday on Wednesday . We all thought initially that it was a cylinder blast . But then there was a lot of commotion . The police appeared on the scene within 15 minutes . We all shut our shops immediately after that , K.R. Jodatar , an umbrella shop owner on the unaffected side , told The Hindu . But all of them opened the shops at the usual time on Thursday morning , said Jodatar . Everything is fine now . It is just that the area is sealed by the police , so there is no traffic there . However , a sense of helplessness is evident among the same people who must have run around to help the victims on Wednesday evening . There were also some who did not bother to check what happened . We did not go to see what happened . There was no need . We saw lot of commotion and closed our shops and went home . The blast was so loud that our shop felt the brunt . Some loose soil fell off the ceiling , this place shattered , said Brahmadeo Gupta , owner of a small utilities shop near LOC_Event , showing the place close to where he sat . Mumbai is back on its feet . Whether it is out of compulsion or grit , who knows , said Shreerang Gandhe , a customer at a peanuts shop . Missing in action were many street vendors selling vegetables . Why ? There is fear . There is no protection for us . But what to do ? We ca n't stop working , said Bablu , a vendor . He did not know why many others did not turn up on Thursday morning . Residents in the LOC_Event area said no CCTV camera was installed in any of the shops on the street , where the blast occurred . It mainly has hardware and plywood shops . We have been staying here for years . There are no CCTV cameras installed in any of the shops here , said Arvind Mehta , who stays at Jayendra Bhavan , right opposite the blast site . The Anti-Terrorism Squad of Maharashtra on Thursday confirmed that timer devices were used in Wednesday 's three blasts here . The explosive used was ammonium nitrate . We have got CCTV footage from all the three locations . We are going through it , ATS chief Rakesh Maria said . The ATS and the Crime Branch police were jointly investigating the case and more than a dozen teams have been formed to crack it . We are probing all the possible angles . We are being closely assisted by the Central agencies . Today , in less than 24 hours after the attack , we can not rule out any possibility , Mr. Maria said . According to a police source , a body had an embedded electronic circuit . Mr. Maria , however , refused to confirm reports that human bombs might have been used . It is too early to say whether human bombs were used or not . I do n't want to disclose anything which hampers the investigation . Police have not been able to figure out where exactly bombs were placed . We have taken samples from all spots . There is a huge amount of debris . The sifting is going on . It is too early to say whether it was placed in a container , a box or a vehicle , Mr. Maria said . Just a 100-metre stretch in the LOC_Event area here shows the contrast . The place where a bomb exploded on Wednesday evening has been cordoned off . Shops on the road are closed and so is the school which stands just a wall away from the bus stop where the IED exploded . But barely 100 metres away , other shops are open and business is as usual . Yes . There was a blast there yesterday -LSB- on Wednesday -RSB- . We all thought initially that it was a cylinder blast . But then there was a lot of commotion . The police appeared on the scene within 15 minutes . We all shut our shops immediately after that , K.R. Jodatar , an umbrella shop owner on the unaffected side , told The Hindu . But all of them opened the shops at the usual time on Thursday morning , said Jodatar . Everything is fine now . It is just that the area is sealed by the police , so there is no traffic there . However , a sense of helplessness is evident among the same people who must have run around to help the victims on Wednesday evening . There were also some who did not bother to check what happened . We did not go to see what happened . There was no need . We saw lot of commotion and closed our shops and went home . The blast was so loud that our shop felt the brunt . Some loose soil fell off the ceiling , this place shattered , said Brahmadeo Gupta , owner of a small utilities shop near LOC_Event , showing the place close to where he sat . Mumbai is back on its feet . Whether it is out of compulsion or grit , who knows , said Shreerang Gandhe , a customer at a peanuts shop . Missing in action were many street vendors selling vegetables . Why ? There is fear . There is no protection for us . But what to do ? We ca n't stop working , said Bablu , a vendor . He did not know why many others did not turn up on Thursday morning . Residents in the LOC_Event area said no CCTV camera was installed in any of the shops on the street , where the blast occurred . It mainly has hardware and plywood shops . We have been staying here for years . There are no CCTV cameras installed in any of the shops here , said Arvind Mehta , who stays at LOC_Event , right opposite the blast site . He also owns a shop at LOC_Event , around 500 metres from the blast site . That shop is open . Here , the shopkeepers have downed the shutters because the main road itself has been cordoned off . Who will come then ? On Wednesday 's incident , he said , We were all having food . When the bomb exploded , glass in the living room broke . Thankfully , we were all in the kitchen so no one was hurt . By the time we came down , the police had cordoned off the area . We saw them carrying three injured people . Our shop did not suffer any other loss except that the glass was shattered , said Shantibhai , owner of a hardware shop across the bus stop . His was the only shop which was open in the affected stretch . All these police officers are around . I have kept the shop open so that they can sit here , he said . Sheer luck All residents and shopkeepers in the vicinity said it was sheer luck that the blast happened 30 minutes after the nearby school closed . There were lots of kids here just half-hour before the blast . Had it happened earlier , it would have been very bad , Alpesh Mehta said . Even as investigators on Thursday were busy looking for concrete clues in Wednesday 's three bomb blasts in LOC_Event , the Union Home Ministry said that all angles were being probed . After taking a complete review of all information and data available till Thursday evening , Secretary ( Internal Security ) in the Home Ministry , U. K. Bansal , told journalists that there was no specific information to share at this moment . Asked if there was any indication as to who could be behind the blasts in LOC_Event , Mr. Bansal said that till now there was no definite information on it . All terrorist outfits and organisations are suspect . There is no specific lead available as of now , he said . He said that forensic experts had given their reports to the Mumbai police which was analysing them . Powerful explosions shook LOC_Event on Friday afternoon , blowing out the windows of several government buildings , including one housing the office of the Norwegian Prime Minister . ( An AFP report said that in what seemed to be a related incident , a man dressed as a police officer opened fire at a youth camp at LOC_Event , an island outside LOC_Event , killing four people . ) Seven people were killed and several more injured in the blasts . A spokeswoman for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said he was safe and not hurt . Stunned office staff and civil servants working in the vicinity of the bombed building said at least two explosions could be heard in close succession , as the sound of the blasts echoed across the city . Giant clouds of light-coloured smoke continued to rise hundreds of feet into the air over the city as a fire burned in one of the damaged structures , a six-storey office building that houses the Oil Ministry . The police said the initial blast occurred at around 3.20 p.m. local time . We think there was more than one blast , said Runar Kvernen , spokesman for the National Police Directorate under the Ministry of Justice and Police . The cause of the explosions was not immediately clear , but a Reuters reporter described seeing the mangled wreckage of a car near one of the buildings . Photos and television footage showed windows blown out in the 17-storey office building across the street from the Oil Ministry , and the street and plaza areas on each side were strewn with glass and debris . The centre of the city , LOC_Event 's capital , was sealed off , and police said they were on heightened alert as they combed through the debris in search of clues . The explosions , which ripped through the cluster of modern office buildings around the LOC_Event , occurred at a time when many Norwegians were on vacation and many more had left their offices early for the weekend . New York Times News Service . After preliminary investigations , the police found that the bomb that went off at LOC_Event on Monday was of shell type . The pellets collected from the blast spot and from the body of the deceased were sent to Madurai for chemical analysis . We will know the exact nature of the bomb only after obtaining the report from the chemical lab , said Bodinayakkanur Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Kalifulla . Two persons were killed when an unused bomb went off at fifth ward of LOC_Event on Monday . Talking to press persons at LOC_Event here on Tuesday , said that one woman near her house saw the vendor breaking the bomb . We had collected pictures of various bombs to show her to identify the right piece . The list of ex-servicemen of this area too was taken to find out whether anybody disposed of it as scrap , he added . Investigation in different angles is on . While Superintendent of Police Praveen Kumar Abinapu inspected the blast spot this morning , Six special teams , including bomb detection and disposal squad , anti-terrorism squad and special intelligence wing camped in the town to collect samples and gather details about the blast . The police believed that the bomb could be a disposed bomb . Unused bombs might mingle with used shells at the time of disposal , they suspect . People were fond of collecting the empty shells to keep them in their houses as decorative pieces . A bomb detection team of Rapid Action Force inspected the blast site at LOC_Event here on Wednesday to identify the type of bomb which blew off at LOC_Event on Monday , killing two persons . The team scanned the spot and interacted with local people . The team members showed some of the bombs brought with them from Coimbatore to the local people and a woman who saw the scrap vendor breaking the bomb on the road . After seeing the bombs , the woman informed that the blasted bomb was a little bit bigger . However , the team ruled out that the blasted bomb was Research Department Explosive ( RDX ) , said police sources . Trinitrotoluene ( TNT ) was used in it . Normally , when RDX goes off , it leaves a black powder-like substance at the spot . There was no such trace . They also confirmed that the bomb belonged to Defence services . It could be a misfired bomb . Such bombs blast only when they hit the target forcefully . The scrap vendor might have attempted to break the bomb , the police sources added . The police found the lot number when they scanned the bomb pieces recovered from the body of one of the deceased . The bomb was made in 1998 . The team met Superintendent of Police Praveen Kumar Abinapu and briefed him of the findings . Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan on Friday said that there was definite progress in the July 13 bomb blasts investigation , and that he was regularly updated on the developments . He told journalists that he could n't divulge specific details , but added that various agencies were probing the blasts . One month after the blasts , the Opposition targeted the government for not making any arrests . Mr. Chavan had said that surveillance and wireless systems would be upgraded . A Home Department official said that the government had asked for a detailed plan for upgrading police wireless systems with the latest in the field of communications and technology . A presentation on this was made to the government , and the Director-General of Police had been asked to find a good option . The government had also asked for systems of alternative communication in emergencies , and police teams had visited Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh to check out the systems there . A decision could be taken in eight to ten days on the alternative systems . The CCTV bids would also be finalised within three months ; at least 2,000 of them were to be installed by the year end , it is learnt . The government plans to instal CCTVs all over the city to increase surveillance by upgrading the communication network soon . Bomb blasts ripped through more than a dozen Iraqi cities on Monday , killing 60 security forces and civilians in the worst attack this year , one that highlighted al-Qaeda 's resolve and ability to wreak havoc . The bloodbath comes less than two weeks after Iraqi officials said they would be open to a small number of U.S. forces staying in the country past a December 31 withdrawal deadline . The blasts were coordinated to go off on Monday morning and included parked car bombs , roadside bombs , a suicide bomber driving a vehicle that rammed a police station and even bombs attached to lightpoles . The scope of the violence seven explosions went off in different towns in LOC_Event province alone emphasised that insurgents are still able to carry out attacks despite repeated crackdowns by Iraqi and U.S. forces . Twin explosions rocked the market in LOC_Event , 160 km southeast of LOC_Event . Police said the first bomb went off in a freezer used to keep drinks cold . As rescuers and onlookers gathered , a parked car bomb exploded ; 35 people were killed and 64 injured . In LOC_Event province , seven bombs went off in the capital of LOC_Event and towns nearby . Five soldiers were killed in LOC_Event while five people were killed in other attacks around the province . Just outside the holy city of LOC_Event , a suicide car bomber plowed his vehicle into a checkpoint outside a police building . Police opened fire when the driver refused to stop , and then the vehicle exploded . Four people were killed and 32 injured . Attacks also took place in the cities of LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and several other smaller towns . At least 10 people were killed and 14 injured in a bomb blast inside a hotel in LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Thursday evening . The bomb exploded as the hotel was opening in the evening for Iftar after a day of fasting , and was fairly crowded at the time . Several shops in the vicinity were also damaged . Members of the families of those who were killed along with former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in the May 1991 LOC_Event suicide bomb blast observed fast here on Friday , demanding that the three death row convicts in the case be hanged immediately . The hanging of the convicts , Murugan , Santhan and Perarivalan has been stayed by the Madras High Court . E.V.K.S. Elangovan , former president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee and among those spearheading a campaign against granting clemency for the convicts , appealed to Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to reconsider the resolution passed by the State Assembly seeking commutation of their death sentence . Those who took part in the programme included former TNCC president Kumari Ananthan , former MP R. Anbarasu and former MLAs H. Vasanthakumar and S.Ve . Shekher . Although the toll in the Delhi High Court bomb blast stood at 13 on Friday , three persons continue to be critical at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here . Fourteen people have been discharged from the Lohia Hospital after they were found fit to return home , while 31 are still undergoing treatment there . Three patients have been transferred to AIIMS ' JPN Trauma Centre . According to a release issued by the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry on Friday , Safdarjung Hospital has four patients under treatment , AIIMS has two , JPN Trauma Centre has three , Moolchand Hospital had three patients with them of which two were discharged , Max Hospital has two patients and Lok Nayak Hospital has one patient . A total of 69 patients were brought to various hospitals , of which 44 are presently admitted and 16 people have been discharged . Nine persons were brought dead to the hospital and four persons died later taking the total death toll to 13 . The release added that the Delhi High Court dispensary attended to about 21 cases and most of them were patients with minor injuries . Burhanuddin Rabbani , former President of Afghanistan and Chairman of the High Peace Council leading the year-old Afghan effort to negotiate with the Taliban was killed in a bomb blast on Tuesday at his residence in the centre of LOC_Event 's high-security diplomatic district . The bomb went off inside the house at 6 p.m. local time . Reports from LOC_Event suggested that he was meeting a couple of members of a terrorist group at the time of the blast as part of the ongoing efforts at reconciliation . One of them is understood to have detonated the bomb . The Associated Press quoted the chief of criminal investigation of Kabul Police , Mohammad Zahir , as stating that a turbaned bomber entered Prof. Rabbani 's house and blew himself up . Questions were being raised about how he accessed the house and the area without being frisked if that was the case . Speculation is that he concealed the explosive material in his turban knowing fully well that local security personnel hesitate to search the turban because it is seen as disrespectful . Another member of President Hamid Karzai 's reconciliation team , Mohammad Masoom Stanekzai , who was also with Prof. Rabbani for the meeting , was injured in the blast . The assassination of Prof. Rabbani who fought as a mujahideen against the Soviet occupation and was President of Afghanistan for two short stints is seen as a big blow to the reconciliation process as he was someone who could rally the disparate Afghan groups and ethnicities . Though the Taliban had ousted him from his first stint as President between 1992 and 1996 after which he became the nominal head of the non-Pashtun Northern Alliance , Prof. Rabbani a Tajik was regarded as a compromise figure who could reach out to the Taliban . The Pakistan government condemned the terrorist attack and conveyed its extreme anger and shock to the brotherly people and government of Afghanistan . The people of Pakistan stand by their Afghan brothers and sisters in this moment of grief on losing a visionary leader who was actively pursuing peace and reconciliation in LOC_Event Professor Burhauddin Rabbani was a friend of Pakistan with whom we were working closely on a vision for peace and prosperity in LOC_Event . A young man who allegedly posing as terrorist to extort Rs .2 crore from a neighbour has been arrested by the Delhi Police Crime Branch . The accused had exploded a low-intensity crude bomb near the victim 's residence to intimidate him . The police received a complaint from an auto-parts supplier alleging that in the early hours of August 13 an incendiary device had exploded near his house . The businessman received threat calls and letters from a person claiming to be member of a terror outfit . He threatened to eliminate the victim 's family members if he did not cough up Rs .2 crore . Based on the complaint , the police registered a case and zeroed in on Parvesh Kumar , 22 , the victim 's neighbour . He was arrested on Tuesday . During interrogation , Parvesh purportedly disclosed that he earlier had cordial relations with the businessman . The victim 's financial status improved with the passage of time , but Parvesh 's remained the same . The businessman had loaned some money to his family and recently asked for repayment . This irked Parvesh and he allegedly decided to extort money from him . The accused configured a crude bomb using inflammable materials used in crackers , planted it on the fuel tank of a mini-truck owned by the businessman and set it afire , which caused a minor blast . Posing as terrorist , he then allegedly threatened the victim for protection money . The accused worked as supervisor in a construction company . He had exploded low-intensity crude bomb near victim 's house to intimidate him Parvesh was irked when the victim asked for repayment of loan . A person was injured when a detonator went off at a shop near LOC_Event area here on Wednesday evening . H.S. Venkatesh , Superintendent of Police , said that the blast took place when shop-owner Jagadish tried to remove copper wires from a damaged electronic gadget . Mr. Jagadish , who was seriously injured in the incident , has been shifted to the General Hospital . Sniffer dogs and bomb disposal squad , which were pressed into service , detected another live detonator inside the gadget that exploded , and was immediately defused , he said . The Rajasthan Anti-Terrorism Squad has seized a car believed to have been used to transport the bombs for the 2007 LOC_Event blast even as the names of four more people cropped up in connection with the case . We have recovered a Santro car and brought it from Indore , recently . It was used by Sunil Joshi ( who died during the course of investigation ) to carry bombs , which were planted in the LOC_Event , from Indore to Gujarat , ATS Additional SP Satyendra Singh told PTI on Saturday The team brought it here as an evidence . The car was sold to somebody else and no fresh arrest has been made in this connection , he said . In what appears to be a breakthrough in the October 2007 bomb blast at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event in which three persons were killed , the Anti-Terrorism Squad ATS of Rajasthan on Wednesday night arrested one Devendra Gupta . A resident of Muzafarpur in Bihar , Gupta was on a visit to his parents ' house at Bihariganj in Ajmer town to meet his ailing mother when the ATS , narrowing on him for some time , nabbed him . The 36-year-old Gupta , who is suspected to have links with a Hindutva terror outfit , was produced on Friday before the Chief Judicial Magistrate of Ajmer who remanded him to 12 days ' police custody . We are hopeful of cracking the Ajmer Dargah blast case , said ATS Chief Kapil Garg Though the officers of the ATS , which took over the blast case in May last year from the Special Operations Group , remained non-committal on Gupta 's affiliations , Rajasthan Home Minister Shanti Kumar Dhariwal said the suspect is a worker ( pracharak ) of the RSS in Muzafarpur . Devendra Gupta is an active member of the RSS . What he did was part of a larger game plan . Behind him is an organization which tries to incite violence between Hindus and Muslims , Mr. Dhariwal said talking briefly to media persons here . We are investigating the links of the organization with the RSS , he asserted . At the moment I can not reveal much about his links as it would affect investigation . We have arrested him on the basis of sound evidence . We are questioning him further , said Mr. Garg who is Additional Director-General of Rajasthan Police . ATS , which started suspecting Gupta 's role in the blast some time back had been shadowing him , Mr. Garg disclosed . Asked about the involvement of the Hindu terror outfits in the Dargah blast , Mr. Garg said for the time being he was neither denying nor accepting it . Any link with the Abinav Bharat Sangathan , which was allegedly behind the Malegaon blast of September 29 , 2008 , was thus not confirmed by Mr. Garg . He , however , said the investigations were not confined to Rajasthan alone . The investigations have taken time but you should also appreciate the fact that we did not give it up even after three years , Mr. Garg observed . The Rajasthan ATS did not act on the links from any other State but would be sending a team to Jharkhand and other States for further investigation , he revealed . The bomb blast took place at LOC_Event of the LOC_Event on October 11 , 2007 , just before Magrib prayers when the devotees were breaking Ramzan fast . It was only three days for Id-ul-Fitr . As usual , the suspects turned out to be Muslim terror groups . The prime suspect then was the Bangladeshi outfit Harket-ul-Jihad-e-Islami ( HuJI ) . There were two bombs in all and only one of them went off killing two persons on the spot and one later in the hospital . In all 15 persons were injured . The sleuths seemingly got some clue on the links from the SIM fitted on the bomb which did not work Though no one was arrested then , about a dozen Muslims -- Imams , Maulanas and madrasa teachers -- were detained and intensively questioned . All of them were later released . The Organisation for Protection of Democratic Rights ( OPDR ) has strongly condemned the bomb blast at the LOC_Event at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on Wednesday and demanded a probe into the incident . In a statement , OPDR State general secretary C. Bhaskar Rao said that the bomb blast could be the handiwork of the police or the management of the power plant proposed at LOC_Event as Dr. Krishna Murthy had been relentlessly campaigning against the project . He said the State government should immediately order a probe to find out the people who planted the bomb and bring them to book at the earliest . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) on Tuesday announced a reward of Rs . 10 lakh each for information that could lead to the arrest of Sandeep Dange alias Parmanand and Ramchandra Kalsangra alias Ramji alias Vishnu Patel in connection with the Samjhauta Express blast case . It also announced a reward of Rs . 2 lakh for the arrest of Ashok alias Amit alias Prince alias Sunny alias Ashwini alias Ashwini Chauhan , also wanted in connection with the case , a statement from the agency said . In his confession statement before a Delhi magistrate last month , Swami Aseemanand named Dange and Kalsangra as being instrumental in carrying out a number of bomb blasts , including the one on the Samjhauta Express . The February 2007 blast led to the death of 68 persons . At least 10 people were killed and double the number injured in a bomb blast at a bakery in the LOC_Event area of the LOC_Event province on Sunday night . The police are on the look-out for a Santro car that was reportedly spotted near LOC_Event shortly before the bomb went off on Wednesday morning . It is learnt that a team conducted searches in Yamuna Vihar in this connection . However , no breakthrough was reported till late in the evening . While statements of the injured persons are being recorded to reconstruct the sequence of events leading up to the incident , the police are trying to find its similarities with the May 25 low-intensity blast outside Gate No. 7 . Wednesday connection Both the blasts were carried out on a Wednesday , said to be the Public Interest Litigation day in the High Court . While there is more rush on Wednesdays , the timing was also chosen to ensure that maximum casualty was caused . `` The court proceedings were to commence and a large number of people had queued up to collect their entry passes . It was a well-planned terror attack . They must have conducted reconnaissance in the area before they struck , said a police officer . Police sources said there was some difference in the mixture of explosives used in both the blasts . Ammonium nitrate and some fuel oil were used in the previous case , said another police officer . Searches still on Police teams are still conducting searches at the blast site to gather crucial evidence . They have not yet found remains of all the components used in configuring the bomb . In the wake of the blasts , anti-sabotage checks were carried out in all the Jammu-bound trains following an input . Investigations into the LOC_Event car blast case took a new turn on Thursday following the Bangkok police 's assertion that suspected terrorists arrested there had used explosives similar to the one employed in the LOC_Event incident on Monday . The Delhi police are awaiting a formal report from the CBI 's Central Forensic Science Laboratory on the nature of explosives used in the improvised magnetic device . While the composition of the bomb used in LOC_Event has not been made public , police sources here said if it was similar to the one used to target the Israeli official here , the ingredient could be a combination of an explosive and an incendiary material , such as nitro-glycerine , which enhances the impact range . Different types of explosives , like potassium chlorate , can be used in the combination . However , the forensic report on the articles lifted from the blast site would make things clear , said an official . Given that a module of foreign nationals was active in LOC_Event , agencies here are screening the data on foreigners who have entered the country in the recent past . The local police have also been instructed to carry out checks in guesthouses and hotels and conduct verifications to gather information primarily on foreign nationals who were staying or had stayed there in the past weeks . The focus of the exercise is to identify those with suspicious movements . Earlier , Delhi Police Commissioner B.K. Gupta said investigations were in the initial stages . It is learnt that the police have solved the mystery behind the recovery of an abandoned red-colour motorcycle in the LOC_Event area of LOC_Event . It is not connected to the blast . We have traced its last owner , who lives in the same locality and had parked the vehicle before he left for Ludhiana . It appears that someone had made a failed attempt to steal the vehicle , said an officer . No concrete leads Stating that no concrete leads had emerged so far from the analysis of the phone calls made around the time of the explosion , the officer said efforts were being made to find out if the module or the assailant had been provided logistics support by any local element . Ruling out any possibility at this stage would hamper the probe , he added . While the police had earlier suggested that the pocket-size bomb used in the attack was a sticky bomb , experts said it was only through proper reconstruction of the configuration with the help of articles recovered from the blast site , besides information on the explosives used in the device , that a decision in this regard could be arrived at . Sticky bomb was an anti-tank grenade first designed and developed in Britain during the World War II . Probe in initial stages : Delhi police chief Abandoned motorcycle not connected to blast Probe in initial stages . Two suicide bombers blew up cars rigged with explosives near a LOC_Event and a hotel in a city in LOC_Event on Monday , killing at least nine people and wounding nearly 100 , state media said . The blasts , which also tore two large craters in the ground , were the latest setback for troubled United Nations efforts to end LOC_Event 's 13-month-old crisis . A team of U.N. observers is already on the ground to salvage a cease-fire that went into effect on April 12 but has been widely ignored by both sides . U.N. officials have singled out the regime as the main aggressor in violations of the truce.Monday 's powerful bombs went off in the city of LOC_Event , an opposition stronghold that government troops recaptured in a military offensive earlier this year . The state-run news agency SANA said security forces and civilians were among those killed , while state TV said that many of the nearly 100 wounded were civilians . The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , an activist network , put the death toll at more than 20 people . LOC_Event 's pro-government al-Ekhbariya TV aired footage of the aftermath from the blasts , showing torn flesh , smashed cars , twisted debris and blood stains on the pavement . The force of the explosions tore the facade off one multistory building , shattered windows in the area and sent debris flying for hundreds of meters . Pro-government websites said five buildings damaged . There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks . State media blamed armed terrorists , a term it uses for rebels trying to topple the government . Activists claimed the regime was behind the bombings to discredit the opposition . Two security personnel were injured in a bomb blast triggered Wednesday by suspected militants in the LOC_Event , police said . A security alert has been sounded . The two Assam Rifles troopers were on routine patrolling when the blast hit them in the LOC_Event area , a few kilometres from the Manipur Police headquarters . Their condition is stated to be stable , an Assam Rifles official said . A security alert has been sounded and LOC_Event has been cordoned off , Imphal district police chief Konsam Jayanta Singh told IANS . He said preliminary reports suggested that the blast could have been triggered by an Improvised Explosive Device . We have found the wreckage of a scooter from the blast site , he said . No arrests had been made so far , he added . Though no rebel group has claimed responsibility for the blasts , Manipur Police and intelligence officials said the blasts were carried out by rebels . On Monday , a youth was killed in a village of LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district after a bomb , suspected to have been planted by militants , went off at his house . There are more than 20 rebel outfits in LOC_Event with demands ranging from secession to greater autonomy . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) on Sunday brought another accused in the 2007 LOC_Event bomb blast case to the city on a prisoners transit ( PT ) warrant and produced him before the magistrate at his house here . The magistrate , however , asked the agency to produce him in the Nampally criminal court complex on Monday . The agency brought Rajendra Choudhary alias Samundar after obtaining a PT warrant from the Panchkula court , Haryana . He is an accused in Samjhauta blast case which is also being investigated by the NIA . He is the sixth person to be arrested in the case . Devender Gupta , Lokesh Sharma , Swamy Aseemanand , Bharat Mohanlal Rateshwar alias Bharat Bhai and Tejaram were already arrested in LOC_Event case , while two others , Sandeep V. Dhage and Ramchandra Kalsangra are absconding , NIA officials said . A special team of the Tamil Nadu police will inspect the scene of Wednesday 's bomb blast in LOC_Event that left 16 people injured . The team comprising senior officers of the Special Branch CID will reach LOC_Event on Friday and hold discussions with the investigators there and peruse available evidence and statements of eyewitnesses , police sources said . Soon after the incident on Wednesday , it was reported that a motorcycle with Tamil Nadu registration number was used to trigger the explosion . Though the registration number was found to be a fake one , the State police , relying on the input provided by their Karnataka counterpart , managed to track down the registered owner of the vehicle on the outskirts of Chennai . However , he claimed to have sold the motorcycle to someone else a few months ago . From then on , investigators came across several fake names , photographs and addresses . A couple of brokers who deal with used two-wheelers remember to have arranged the sale of the motorcycle . But the name , identity proof and address provided by them were found to be fake . It appears that the motorcycle changed a few handsefforts are on to zero in on the person who owned or used it last , a senior police official said . Meanwhile , it has been decided to visit the scene of blast to ascertain certain inputs . A few registration numbers were given to us by the Bangalore police . Most of them were found to be fake . In one case , the vehicle and the owner were found at the registered address ... it was obvious that he had nothing to do with the blast . The State police are working in close coordination with other agencies , the official said . At least 14 people were killed when twin explosions caused by suicide bomb attackers struck near a LOC_Event on Tuesday , state television said , updating its earlier toll . The number of casualties after a twin suicide attack in LOC_Event has risen to 14 dead and 31 injured , said the broadcaster . The two suicide explosions took place near a LOC_Event , it added . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights also reported the blasts , but put the toll higher at 15 . The number of people killed after two explosions in LOC_Event has risen to 15 , said the Britain-based monitoring group . One of the blasts `` was caused by a suicide bomb attacker who blew himself up inside the LOC_Event , said the Observatory , revising its earlier reports . A second explosion took place just outside the LOC_Event , the group said , without elaborating on the nature of that blast . The number of casualties is expected to rise because several of the wounded are in critical condition , added the Observatory , which relies on a network of activists , doctors and lawyers for its reports . Areas of central LOC_Event have suffered frequent bomb attacks through the course of Syria 's 26-month war . Two powerful bombs exploded in the high-security capital complex here on Thursday , amid a boycott of Independence Day celebrations by militants , official sources said . There was no casualty , and no group claimed responsibility for the blasts . The first bomb went off in the LOC_Event area , 400 metres away from the venue of the main function , where Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh was present . The second explosion , suspected to be triggered by a remote control device , took place at LOC_Event , the sources said . The spot was 100 metres from the LOC_Event police station . One person was killed and 17 others injured in two separate incidents of bomb blasts that rocked western LOC_Event on Sunday . Police have said that one person died on the spot and 12 others were injured when a bomb planted by suspected ULFA militans went off in the fish market at LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district at around 5.45 pm on Sunday . In another incident five persons were injured in a powerful blast that rocked LOC_Event Assam at around 11.30 am on Sunday . A police official in LOC_Event said that suspected United Liberation Front of Asom militants planted the bomb in a motorcycle in the parking area outside the railway station . All the injured persons were daily-wage workers . The blast is the latest in the series of attacks engineered by the banned ULFA since January 5 . The explosions and shootouts have so far claimed 78 lives , including those of about 60 Hindi-speaking persons in the state , sending the police and the Army engaged in counter-insurgency operations into a tizzy . A commander of the banned militant group called up local newspapers stating that it would train its guns on government officials if the government do not stop the latest Army crackdown on the outfit . The outfit had earlier threatened to kill members of ruling Congress party in the state . The militant group has been triggering blasts in different parts of the state almost regularly though the police and the Army have intensified operations against it . The group triggered two blasts in the high-security capital of LOC_Event last week , killing four persons and injuring many . National Congress , Left condemn LOC_Event blast . The Congress and the Left Parties today expressed deep shock over the killing of 13 persons , mostly schoolchildren , at an Independence Day parade by militants at LOC_Event in LOC_Event . The Congress said the incident was a powerful reminder of the continuing threat of terrorism in the sensitive border States . No words were adequate to condemn this dastardly act . It calls for continued vigil on the part of the intelligence agencies , police and administration to prevent recurrence of such incidents , the party spokesperson , Anand Sharma , said adding that in some regions , some foreign countries were providing covert assistance to terror . The Polit Bureau of the Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) said the horrific crime ' came in the background of a call for boycott by the United Liberation Front of Assam ( ULFA ) of the Independence Day celebrations . In a statement , the Polit Bureau conveyed its heartfelt condolences to the families of those killed . It said the State Government should spare no effort to hunt down the culprits responsible for this heinous crime ' and also urgently enquire into how the blast in LOC_Event and other places took place when heightened security arrangements were in place . The party said that all the democratic political forces in Assam must unitedly mobilise the people to isolate the extremists and disruptive elements who have no compunctions in targeting innocent children and people . The Communist Party of India said the dastardly crime ' was committed through a bomb blast by remote control in a terrible atmosphere ' created by the boycott call by the ULFA . While expressing its condolences to the families of those killed , the party urged the State Government to track down the culprits and take punitive action . A person who was injured in the police lathicharge on protesters at NCC thermal power plant site at LOC_Event on July 14 succumbed on Wednesday , while a crude bomb mysteriously exploded in LOC_Event owned by Y. Krishnamurthy , president of the Paryavarana Parirakshana Sangham ( PPS ) . Both the incidents brought the situation to a boil once again in LOC_Event and a bandh is being called by the PPS that spearheaded the agitation against the power plant . Dr. Krishnamurthy and another leader of PPS Bena Dhilli Rao suspected the hand of local Congress leader , P. V. Ramana and his supporters in the bomb blast . No one was injured in the explosion but the front elevation of the hospital and furniture was damaged in the second floor where the bomb was planted . Eye witnesses said the blast took place at 2.15 p.m. when Dr. Krishnamurthy was treating patients on the ground floor . Patients and medical staff ran out of the hospital . The 60-year-old Bendalam Krishnamurthy who was injured in the lathicharge was undergoing treatment at a hospital all this while and was discharged only a week ago . This pushes the death toll to three as two persons were killed in police firing on July 14 . The PPS leaders submitted a representation to the District Superintendent of Police Sanjay Kumar Jain urging him to conduct a thorough inquiry and to take stern action against those involved . People with the vested interests and supporters of power plant are trying to eliminate us physically . These incidents will not deter us and we will continue to fight against the power plant , said Mr. Dhilli Rao . Mr. Jain said experts from the forensic department will inquire into the incident . PPS leaders suspected one person called Ramana . We will conduct a thorough inquiry and take the inputs from the forensic department also , he told The Hindu . Even as more than 10 Maoists and three policemen were killed in an anti-Naxal operation in the Saranda forest in Jharkhand 's West Singhbhum district since Saturday , Naxalites blasted the LOC_Event , LOC_Event , and a hostel here on Monday morning . The operation was launched jointly by the security forces of Jharkhand and Orissa . More than 4,000 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force , Jharkhand Jaguar , the STF and the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action ( CoBRA ) and two helicopters have been deployed . Director-General of Police Neyaz Ahmad said the bodies of some of the rebels were recovered . CRPF DIG Banu Pratap Singh said CRPF personnel camped in the LOC_Event and the hostel nearly two months ago . Three cane bombs , two weapons and five grenades were recovered . At least a dozen people were feared killed and over 100 injured in three blasts that disrupted Youm-e-Ali the Shia procession to mark the martyrdom of Hazrat Ali in LOC_Event on Wednesday evening . The suicide bomb attacks were followed by mob ire on the police resulting in stone pelting and torching of vehicles of security personnel . The first two blasts took place near LOC_Event where the procession was headed . As panic-stricken members ran away from the scene , a suicide bomber detonated himself at LOC_Event in the vicinity claiming the maximum number of lives and leaving many injured . Even as the injured were being rushed to hospitals , angry participants in the procession turned their anger at the police . This led to reports of violence breaking out in nearby areas . The attacks took place despite security being strengthened as always for this procession . Lahore Commissioner Khusro Pervez told reporters that this was a very well-planned and coordinated attack as the suicide bomber which was the deadliest of the three attacks managed to penetrate the security cordon in the melee of the initial blasts . In fact , officials maintained that special attention had been made to secure the procession as sectarian violence particularly attacks on minority groups of Muslims also has been on the rise in recent months . A woman was injured seriously in a blast in her house at LOC_Event on Thursday night . The police made no breakthrough in their investigation till Friday evening . The injured woman has been identified as Julekha ( 48 ) . She could not give any details as she is speech impaired . The blast took place in Julekha 's house at LOC_Event ( LOC_Event ) in Bhatkal . Julekha 's neighbours said that they heard a deafening sound around 9.30 p.m. . They rushed to Julekha 's house after they heard her screaming . Julekha was shifted to hospital immediately . Julekha 's younger sister , who stays near her house , said she had no idea how the blast occurred . Julekha 's daughter lives in Goa . Julekha 's son , who lives in Dubai , arrived in Bangalore a few days ago , it is said . He met his mother in the hospital on Friday . He informed the police that his mother told him in sign language that the explosion took place when she tried to light a lamp . Vedamurthy , Deputy Superintendent of Police , told The Hindu that the police could not make much headway in the investigation because Julekha was speech impaired . He said that a bomb disposal squad and a dog squad had been sent to the blast site from Karwar . Ballistic experts from Bangalore would visit the house soon . Mr. Vedamurthy said that Julekha , who was being treated in a hospital in Kundapur , would be shifted to the medical college in Manipal . Eight youths were arrested by the Bada Bazar police in the city in connection with a case of bomb attack . The youths were involved in blasting of crude bombs in LOC_Event area of the city in which one Narayan Behera was seriously injured . Past rivalry had led to the attack , police sources said . After a lull , political violence has surfaced again in the rural areas , particularly in the politically sensitive Nadapuram police station limits , of the district . At least two incidents were reported early on Saturday . A bomb was thrown at the house of Kuttiyil Aziz at LOC_Event . There was no casualty . However , the blast damaged a portion of the house . The bomb disposal squad also recovered an unexploded bomb from the terrace of the building , the police said . Vehicles torched In another incident , several vehicles were torched at LOC_Event near LOC_Event . Two motorcycles parked in the porch of the house of Mulleri Nazeer were set ablaze . A motorbike of his friend Kulungara Shamsu was also torched . An autorickshaw owned by Mavilakunnumal Akilesh was destroyed . These incidents occurred between 3 and 4 a.m. Local people and the police doused the flames . Senior police officers said a team of police personnel had been deployed in these areas . Isolated clashes between the Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) ( CPI-M ) and the Indian Union Muslim League ( IUML ) had been reported at LOC_Event from Tuesday . However , the violence soon spread to nearby regions such as Ayancherry . Injured Two CPI ( M ) activists , Illathu Balan and Pulikkal Rajan , were injured in clashes on Friday night . They have been admitted to the Vadakara Cooperative Hospital . Soon afterwards there was an attack on a provision store . The house of an IUML activist was pelted with stones . The CPI ( M ) observed a dawn-to-dusk hartal at Ayancherry grama panchayat in protest against the attack on its workers . Party leaders said that IUML had masterminded the attack . A few persons had been taken into custody in connection with the incident , the police said . In another incident , six persons were injured in clashes between the workers of the CPI ( M ) and the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) at Karimbinpalakandi in Kayakkodi grama panchayat on Friday . The injured have been admitted to the Perambra government hospital . Bombs were hurled at an automobile workshop owned by a BJP activist . An autorickshaw was partially damaged in the explosion . The windscreen of a stationary private bus was shattered . The police have recovered an unexploded pipe bomb from the site . A posse of personnel were camping in the area , the police said . CPI ( M ) observes hartal in Ayancherry panchayat Police personnel deployed in violence-hit areas . The Additional Director General of Police ( Law and Order ) , S. George , visited the causeway in LOC_Event near LOC_Event , where a pipe bomb was recovered , on Saturday . He was accompanied by SIT Deputy Inspector General of Police , John Nicholson , SP B. Vijayakumari and Deputy Inspector General of Police ( Dindigul Range ) Sanjay Mathur . Personnel of several wings of the State police , including the Q ' branch , the Special Intelligence Unit , Bomb Detection and Disposal squad ( BDDS ) from Chennai and Crime Branch Criminal Investigation Department and forensic experts are camping here , trying to assimilate the bits and pieces of information available with them to arrive at the motive and the people behind the criminal act . Earlier , Mr. George had a long discussion with the Commissioner , P. Kannappan , Superintendent of Police Asra Garg and other police officials here . A BDDS official said that it was for the first time he came across such a huge quantity of around eight kg of Power Gel 90 explosive planted in an act of sabotage in the State . We have come across the explosives only in the range of one to two kg . But this is huge , he added . The explosive , packed in a PVC pipe , was placed in one of the two bed-level spans under the causeway at LOC_Event on the LOC_Event . Since the span was narrow , the suspects connected the explosive-packed ( four-foot-long ) PVC pipe with an empty pipe ( of an identical length ) to place it right in the middle of the carriage way , a police source said . The police officials were stunned by the choice of place of the saboteurs . The bomb was planted on the downstream of the causeway . There were lot of bushes on the upstream side . Probably , they avoided it because the bush that would have provided them a good hiding spot would have also hidden the sight of the road and movement of vehicles , an officer said . While the bomb was placed on the farther side of the causeway , the trigger was placed closer to the entry to the causeway . It was placed on the farther side since the conspirators ' plan was to get maximum time and to ensure that the target vehicle was in the middle of the causeway . Besides being closer to the entry ( of the causeway with the trigger ) would help them sight the target vehicle at the earliest , the officer said . The 12-volt battery connected to some 80-metre-long wire for triggering the blast was placed inside a polythene bag to ensure that the battery was not affected by the wet condition . The police personnel were seen collecting the worn-out pieces of clothes that were used to conceal the wire that was laid on the river bed . The battery was placed amidst wild growth of reeds , which would have given a perfect cover for the saboteur and also allowed him to escape from the scene , after blasting , without being noticed by the people on the road , the officer said . Earlier , Mr. George inspected the Tirumangalam taluk police station , where the remnants of the bomb , the white PVC pipes , the green wire and the brand new battery were kept , police said . The Tirumangalam taluk police had filed a case under Section 307 of Indian Penal Code ( Attempt to murder ) and Sections 4 and 5 of Explosive Substances Act . Meanwhile , the Madurai Rural police , in a statement , said that route bandobust was provided for the convoy of Mr. Advani , police pickets were posted in sensitive areas to collect intelligence , besides checking of route by the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad . Based on a specific information received by the Tirumangalam taluk police Sub-Inspector , Kannan , on a suspected object , the police , including the SP , rushed to the spot . It was found to be a pipe-bomb ' , which was removed safely and defused by the BDDS team . The statement added that the police team has come across various objects at the scene of crime which gave important clues for further investigation . A landmine was discovered at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district in the course of joint security operations against the Maoists on Friday . The development came just one day ahead of a Trinamool Congress rally to be addressed by Tamluk MP Subhendu Adhikari where he is expected to speak out against Left-Wing extremist activity in the region . A landmine was discovered near LOC_Event village . Experts from the Bomb Disposal Squad immediately neutralised it by blasting it , Jhargram Superintendent of Police Gaurav Sharma told The Hindu over telephone . Less than a kilometre away , some landmines had been detected and diffused by the police on Thursday . These landmines were recovered just about seven to eight kilometres away from the site where the Trinamool Congress rally is to be held , Mr. Sharma said . He added that elaborate security arrangements have been put in place ahead of Saturday 's rally . Earlier this month also , suspected Maoists opened fire at a procession of the anti-Maoist political outfit , Jana Jagaran Manch , which is backed by the Trinamool Congress in LOC_Event district on November 6 . The activists of the Jana Jagaran Manch were out on motorcycles asking people to attend the rally . The NIA Special Court on Wednesday remanded in judicial custody Danish Riyaz , 34th accused in a case relating to organising a secret training camp for activists of the Students Islamic Movement of India ( SIMI ) at Wagamon in Idukki district in 2007 . He was brought from Gujarat where he was lodged in jail in connection with a bomb blast case . A charge sheet against 30 activists of the SIMI had already been filed before the court . The NIA 's case was that in November 2007 , the activists of the proscribed organisation had entered into a criminal conspiracy in Madhya Pradesh and other places to conduct training camps for their cadres . They had organised camps in Karnataka , Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat from December 10 , 2007 to December 12 besides arranging a secret training camp at Wagamon in December . The recent seizure of a pipe bomb ' on the scheduled route of the Bharatiya Janata Party leader L. K. Advani 's yatra near LOC_Event in LOC_Event district has come as a wake-up call for the officials of the Revenue and Police departments and the Directorate of Mines and Minerals in Kanyakumari district to streamline the operation of stone quarries and the distribution of explosive substances to blast rocks . 50 unauthorised quarries There are 43 approved stone quarries and more than 50 unauthorised quarries functioning in the district . Boring of rock is done manually as blasting results in cracks in nearby buildings . The quarry dust emanating from the rubble also poses a health hazard . Still , explosives are used to blast rocks in the district . There have also been instances of illegal possession of explosive materials such as detonators , gelatine sticks , cut wires and batteries . Recently , explosive materials were planted at the residence of a teacher at LOC_Event , which created a suspicion that it could be related to the attempt to blast Mr. Advani 's convoy . Later , it turned out to be a conspiracy hatched by the teacher against her spouse . The free and easy availability of explosive materials in the district is a cause for concern among officials . They are worried about the unchecked quarrying activity . High demand Explosives are in demand in illegal quarrying sites , which also use machinery . Workers fall victims to accidents in these quarries , officials allege . There have been reports of loss of limbs in quarries . Shortage of staff The official machinery , which regulates and monitors the use of explosives , is plagued with shortage of staff and vehicles . Even inspection of the quarry has to be done in a vehicle provided by the lessee . The illegal means of procuring and using explosives could be curbed by providing adequate staff to the police and revenue officials as also those attached to the office of the Assistant Director ( Mines and Minerals ) . An intensified vigil will also prevent inter-State movement of explosive materials . Easy availability of explosive materials is a cause for concern , writes P.S. Suresh Kumar . Bomb and gun attacks targeting police stations and churches in the northeastern Nigerian city of LOC_Event left 63 people dead , said a Red Cross official on Saturday . One of the police buildings was hit by a suicide bomber , Suleimon Lawal , police chief for LOC_Event state , whose capital is LOC_Event , told AFP . A local government official said hundreds were also injured when the attackers bombed a city police headquarters , three other police stations and six churches in LOC_Event late Friday , after similar raids in another city blamed on an Islamist sect . A lawyer who visited LOC_Event 's government hospital Saturday looking for a missing friend said he counted 60 bodies in the morgue , all brought in yesterday from the attacks . The lawyer , who asked not to be named , told AFP he found the friend , a policeman , among the corpses . No group has claimed responsibility for the attacks , but residents of LOC_Event blame the Islamist sect Boko Haram , based in nearby Maiduguri , where a suicide blast earlier Friday damaged a military headquarters . An official told AFP that the hospital was full to the brim with wounded . LOC_Event was shaken on Thursday by a string of lethal bombings that not only killed at least 57 persons and wounded 180 , but also heightened sectarian tensions that were already on edge following the withdrawal of American forces . At least 12 blasts , likely coordinated , hit several neighbourhoods , leaving behind a trail of death and destruction . For several hours after the bombings , plumes of grey smoke swirled into the sky from the sites of the carnage . The surge in violence on Thursday was seen by many as retaliation against the government which has issued an arrest warrant against Tariq-al Hashimi , Vice-President and an established Sunni leader . The Interior Ministry has levelled terrorism charges against Mr. Hashimi , based on statements that he personally ordered assassinations of his opponents , by his bodyguards . The embattled Vice-President , currently residing in the semi-autonomous area governed by the Kurdistan Regional Movement ( KRG ) , has said he was ready to stand trial in the Kurdish areas , but has declined to participate in a judicial process run in Baghdad . The controversy is already undermining political stability in Iraq , where the perception of a power vacuum is rife , following the U.S. exit , after nearly nine inglorious years of occupation . Iraq 's slide into chaos or the establishment of a new model of governance outside the existing framework that the Americans had micro-managed , would rob the Obama-administration of its claims of recording double-success in Iraq of establishing democracy and withdrawing U.S. forces . The Iraqiya coalition holding 82 seats , of which Mr. Hashimi 's Renewal List is a part has already declared that it was suspending its participation in the 325-member Parliament . The Iraqi National List led by the former Prime Minister , Iyad Allawi , and the Iraqi Front for National Dialogue led by Saleh al-Mutlaq , are also part of this coalition which has solid Sunni support . The bloc has accused Prime Minister Nouri Al-Maliki of monopolising all decision-making . In response , Mr. Maliki on Wednesday warned that in case Iraqiya did not participate , he would appoint new Ministers . This has mounted further stress on the Iraq 's fragile system of governance , which in the past has shown that it has an inbuilt capacity to fray along its several religious , sectarian and ethnic fault-lines . The serial blasts on Thursday began in the early hours when Iraqis were heading for work and shops were about to open . The LOC_Event neighbourhood was one of the worst hit by the multiple blasts , in which car bombs and improvised explosives were used with deadly effect . Two persons , including a teenage boy and a newly recruited cadet officer of the Central Reserve Police Force , died in a freak accident near a CRPF camp at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district in LOC_Event on Sunday when a High Explosive Bomb exploded accidentally . A local woman who had gone to pick metal pieces from the CRPF firing range had picked up an unexploded bomb , which she threw , in fear , towards the CRPF cadet officers on being apprehended by them . The explosion wounded seven persons , including the local woman . One of the injured teenage boys is in critical condition , police said . A 12-year-old boy died on the spot while the cadet officer succumbed to his injuries when he was being treated at the hospital . Of the seven others injured in the blast , the condition of one is serious , Shahaji Umap , Additional Superintendent of Police , LOC_Event , told The Hindu . The blast happened at around 2 p.m. , he said . Mr. Umap said the CRPF had a training institute and a firing range around 15 km away from LOC_Event , where CRPF jawans and officers conduct regular firing practice . The children of the village around the area enter the firing range to collect metal pieces that are found in the range due to the firing and shelling practice . The villagers later sell the metal pieces as scrap to earn money , Mr. Umap said . There are times when some bombs which are fired with the help of bomb-launchers do not explode and keep lying there , he said . A year after an explosion had rocked the LOC_Event in LOC_Event , security agencies are clueless about the module that was used to trigger the bomb blast that left a 2-year-old girl dead and over three dozen injured . Those behind the blast continued to remain a mystery for investigators as did the nature of the explosive material used to trigger the bomb . However , Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) had claimed responsibility for the blast in e-mails sent to media houses and said the incident was in response to demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992 . The recent modules busted by the Delhi Police in which six persons allegedly belonging to the IM were arrested have expressed their ignorance about the LOC_Event explosion . Security forces have rounded up many people and jailed terrorists were questioned without any results . There was a move to handover the probe to the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) but it was dropped because of issues between the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh Government . Two miscreants hurled crude bombs at a liquor shop located in LOC_Event market at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on Wednesday night . The miscreants escaped on a bike . A worker of the liquor shop received injuries and two bomb blasts also damaged liquor stock . An eight-year-old girl was killed and 12 people were injured , five seriously , in a bomb blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district on Tuesday . An unidentified cycle-borne person threw the bomb at a fish shop in the market which exploded killing the girl on the spot , SubDivisional Officer S Z Hasan said . The injured were admitted to Sadar hospital where the condition of five was stated to be critical , he said . A pair of bombs blasted through security checkpoints ringing the Iraqi holy city of LOC_Event Thursday and killed at least 50 people , many of whom were Shia pilgrims headed to observe yearly religious rituals . Authorities estimated as many as 175 people were injured in the afternoon blasts , at least one of which appeared to be caused by a car bomb . There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks . But they bore the hallmark of Al-Qaeda and other Sunni-dominated extremist groups that frequently target Shia pilgrimages in hopes of re-igniting sectarian violence that brought Iraq to the brink of civil war just a few years ago . Ali Khamas , a pilgrim from the Shia neighbourhood of Sadr City in Baghdad , said he saw a car speeding toward one of the checkpoints , its driver refusing to stop despite warnings screamed by Iraqi soldiers . He sped up and blew up his car near the checkpoint , said Mr. Khamas . After the explosion , people started to run in all directions , while wounded people on the ground were screaming for help . I saw several dead bodies on the ground . Still , Mr. Khamas said , the pilgrims continued to head to LOC_Event . It will not deter us from continuing our march to the holy shrine ... even if the explosions increase . The bombings were the latest in a three-day barrage of attacks across LOC_Event that have killed more than 100 people since Tuesday . Two car bombs on Monday struck Shia pilgrims in an Iraqi holy city , killing at least 18 people as pilgrims massed for religious rituals marking the end of a 40-day mourning period for the Islamic sect 's most beloved saint . The blasts in LOC_Event were the latest in nearly a week of attacks that have killed at least 159 people . The uptick in violence has shattered a lengthy period of calm and raised anew concerns about the readiness of Iraqi forces to take over their own security ahead of a full withdrawal by the U.S. military . The first attack occurred about 7 a.m. in a parking lot near busloads of pilgrims on the eastern outskirts of LOC_Event , 90 km south of LOC_Event . Police and hospital officials said that six pilgrims were killed and 34 people wounded in that attack . A second bomb was discovered nearby and dismantled , police said . More than four hours later , a second car bomb struck pilgrims on the southern edge , killing at least 12 people , including 10 pilgrims and two soldiers , and wounding 21 . Monday 's attacks followed a triple suicide bombing last week along two highways leading to LOC_Event that killed 56 and wounded at least 180 most of them Shia pilgrims . A primary school student was seriously injured when a crude bomb blasted near him at LOC_Event village under Raikia police station in LOC_Event district . The injured child was Chandan Pradhan ( 8 ) , a student of class three in the local residential school for tribals and dalits . He accidentally stepped on a crude bomb hidden near a pond of the village , which blasted . He was admitted to the Raikia Community Health Centre ( CHC ) . A car bomb on Thursday ripped through a funeral tent in a mainly Shia area of LOC_Event , the deadliest in a series of attacks that killed at least 40 people . The blasts were the latest in more than a week of bombings that have killed more than 200 people , raising concerns about an uptick in violence as the U.S. military prepares to withdraw from the country . The violence has mainly targeted the majority Shia community and Iraqi security forces , posing a major challenge to Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki and his fragile coalition government that was seated last month . Suspicion The car that exploded about 2 pm on Thursday had been parked with the vehicles of other mourners , several metres away from the tent , so it would n't raise suspicion , said police . Several other cars were set afire and the force of the blast damaged nearby houses . At least 37 people , including four children and three women , were killed and 78 wounded , according to police and hospital officials . Unidentified miscreants threw county-made bombs at a house at LOC_Event in the limits of Vadakara police station in the district on Friday night . No casualty has been reported . The bombs hit the compound wall of a house belonging to N.P. Kunhammed . The wall developed fissures due to the impact of the blast , the police said . The area had earlier witnessed clashes between activists of the Indian Union Muslim League ( IUML ) and the Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) ( CPI-M ) . A case has been registered in connection with the incident . The son of Kunhammed was an accused in the case of attack on a reading home recently , the police said . An all-party meeting comprising leaders of various political parties had called for restoring peace at LOC_Event in the wake of increasing violent incidents in the region . Meanwhile , the police recovered a suspicious object similar to a home-made bomb at LOC_Event in the limits of Nadapuram police station in the district on Saturday . The unexploded bomb was recovered from the stairs of a house located near an Ayurvedic clinic on LOC_Event . The Nadapuram police and the Bomb Detection Squad , who arrived at the house , established that the object was a fake bomb containing clay with jute twines . Some culprits could have had carried out the mischief to create a prank on the occupants of the house , the police said . Karnataka , on Thursday , opposed granting bail to People 's Democratic Party leader Abdul Nasir Maudany , an accused in the LOC_Event serial bomb blasts case , alleging that he masterminded the explosions . Opposing the bail application , Advocate-General Ashok Haranahally submitted in the Karnataka High Court that the accused had links with members of terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba ( LeT ) . It would not be safe to grant bail to such a person who is involved in terror activities as already most witnesses in the case are being threatened , Mr. Haranahally said . The accused appeared to have masterminded the blasts , as he was not only involved in the conspiracy but was also in constant touch with other the accused , some of whom were alleged to be LeT members and was continuously monitoring what was happening , the prosecution argued . It just can not be believed that he was not involved in the conspiracy . He was not only involved in it , he also harboured the accused , Mr. Haranahally contended . B.V. Acharya , counsel for Maudany , submitted that a person should not be made accused in a case on the basis of his past . There are no cases against the ISS now-defunct Islamic Sevak Sangh that Maudany had founded or the PDP that they were or are indulging in unlawful activities . He can not be accused of an offence on that basis , he submitted . Mr. Acharya further contended that the investigation had not been carried out in a fair manner and it was only a make-believe theory to implicate Maudany . Requesting that Maudany be granted bail , Acharya pleaded he would abide by any condition imposed by the court . Maudany has sought bail on the grounds that there was no prima facie case against him . Justice V. Jagannathan sought certain clarifications on the phone call records between the accused and the other accused and posted the case to Friday for further arguments . The trial in the LOC_Event twin bomb blasts cases began in camera before a National Investigation Agency special court here on Monday . The court ordered in-camera trial on a request from the NIA prosecutor . Two policemen and a porter were injured in the blasts on March 3 , 2006 . The explosions took place at a garbage dump in the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation depot and near the LOC_Event within 10 minutes of each other . The charge sheet said some of the accused involved in the 2004 Marad case were denied bail by the Kozhikode district court . They , therefore , hatched a conspiracy and planted bombs in order to retaliate and create communal disharmony between two communities . As many as seven accused are facing trial in the case . One accused had earlier been killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir while crossing the India-Pakistan boarder for getting arms training in Pakistan . Two others were declared as proclaimed offenders as they went into hiding . The charge sheet said some of these accused were also involved in several anti-national and terror-related cases . Earlier , the cases were investigated by the Kozhikode city police and the Crime Branch CID Kozhikode . Taking into consideration the gravity of the incident and its terror angle , the Central government had directed the NIA to take up the investigation . Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan has alleged that the bomb blast incident at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on Saturday exposed the preparations the United Democratic Front ( UDF ) was making to instigate violence during the upcoming Assembly elections . At a press conference here on Sunday , the Chief Minister said five UDF workers were killed and three others severely injured when a bomb accidently went off at a secret bomb-making facility of the front . It shows to what extent the UDF leaders , who are in the dock for indulging in corruption and mafia operations , will go , he said . He noted that the UDF had unleashed violence at LOC_Event during the run-up to the 2001 Assembly elections and followed it up with false propaganda to influence the polls . The UDF had started large-scale bomb production as the State prepared to go for elections , he said . They are doing things to divert the attention of people from the case in which their leader is involved . The UDF is doing this on the initiative of the Indian Union Muslim League , he said . He asked Leader of the Opposition Oommen Chandy to own up responsibility for the LOC_Event incident ( on behalf of the UDF ) and tender his apologies to the people of the State . He said the police would be strict in dealing the mischief mongers and asked people to be vigilant against the ongoing conspiracy . UDF flayed The bomb explosion clearly shows that the UDF is getting ready to sabotage free and fair verdict in the upcoming Assembly elections , Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) State secretary Pinarayi Vijayan has said . In a statement on Sunday , Mr. Vijayan demanded a police investigation into the explosion and stern action against the forces behind it . The death of five IUML workers in the explosion was a serious political issue . The CPI ( M ) leader said the IUML and UDF were indulging in violence to pin down the Left Democratic Front ( LDF ) . During the last days of the Nayanar government , they had not only launched bomb attacks , but had also spread rumours that an LDF activist had molested a housewife . They were attempting a re-enactment of the same political culture . At least in the light of the bomb explosion in the League stronghold of LOC_Event , the UDF leadership should give up politics of violence , he added . Mr. Vijayan said the kinship between certain extremist organisations that function under the label of minorities and the Muslim League was evident in the bomb manufacturing at Nadapuram . Pinarayi Vijayan seeks strong action Terms the incident a serious political issue . Nine people , including three children , were killed and 20 injured when a car bomb ripped through a crowded market on the outskirts of LOC_Event on Wednesday morning . The blast took place near a LOC_Event and was one in a series of explosions that have rocked the city over the past week . According to the police , the explosion at LOC_Event was triggered by a timer device . Police suspect the target was the police station but the bomber could not get to the building in time due to the traffic congestion . A ball-like plastic pack containing explosive chemicals was reportedly found on the premises of the Government Higher Secondary School LOC_Event on Wednesday . Police sources said the substance meant for blasting in quarries could have mistakenly landed on the school premises . It was seized and taken for defusing by the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad , police sources said . The District and Sessions Court on Wednesday acquitted Muthulakshmi , wife of slain forest brigand Veerappan , social worker Kolathur Mani , Nakkeeran reporter S. Sivasubramaniam and four of Veerappan 's associates in the 1993 LOC_Event bomb blast case owing to lack of evidence . The Special Task Force had booked cases under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities ( Prevention ) Act against Veerappan , Muthulakshmi , Mani , Sivasubramaniam , Savariayappan , Papathi , Bonda Basava and Eranna . Twenty-two police personnel and two forest watchers were killed in the bomb blast . Although Muthulakshmi has been acquitted in the DCF Srinivas murder case , the LOC_Event attack case , the LOC_Event attack case and the LOC_Event bomb blast case , she will continue to be in jail till all the cases against her are disposed of , STF sources said . In the LOC_Event bomb blast case , the Supreme Court awarded death sentence to the prime accused Siman , Gynanendra , Bilavendra and Meesekar Madaiah . Their clemency petition is pending with the President . A country-made bomb exploded at a bus stop at LOC_Event near LOC_Event on the outskirts of the city early on Wednesday . No casualties have been reported in the incident that occurred at around 5.30 a.m. . The tiles of a waiting shed were destroyed in the explosion . Local people said they heard a big sound and tremors were felt at a nearby house . The police recovered fragmented pieces of steel , nails , paper pieces and jute twines from the site . Low-intensity explosion The explosion was of low intensity . Clues obtained suggested that the bomb was homemade , Anup Kuruvilla John , Commissioner of Police , Kozhikode city , said . Forensic experts collected samples from the debris and sent it for chemical examination at the Forensic Science Laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram . The Feroke police registered a case . A bomb detection and disposal squad and a dog squad checked the area . Assistant Commissioner of Police ( South ) K. Mohanachandran visited the spot . LOC_Event and its adjoining areas are usually conflict-free zones . However , two years ago a similar explosion had occurred at the bus stop . Later , explosive devices were recovered from a cable chamber of the Telecom Department at Athanvalavil , a nearby place . A week before the Assembly elections , the police had recovered four old swords from Mannur near LOC_Event . Heightened political activity and activities of fundamentalist outfits in the region in recent times had created suspicion among the residents . The police think that miscreants could have set off the blast as a test at an unoccupied bus stop or to create panic . Four people were killed and nearly 57 injured in two separate bomb attacks on buses ferrying naval personnel to work in LOC_Event on Tuesday . All four killed , including a lady doctor , were naval employees and 50 of the injured also worked for the Pakistan Navy . The two blasts took place in quick succession ; the first in the upmarket LOC_Event and the second in the LOC_Event neighbourhood . The bombs were planted along the regular routes of the buses and detonated by remote control . While the first bomb was packed into a motorcycle , the second was thrown into a garbage dump . No terrorist organisation had claimed responsibility for the two blasts till evening . A bomb blast ripped through a bus at LOC_Event near LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event province on Saturday , killing at least six persons and injuring 20 others . An explosive device was planted under a seat at the rear of the bus , the police said . More than 24 hours after a low-intensity explosive device went off near a car parked on a service lane outside the LOC_Event , the Delhi Police had no clue to the identity of the group behind the blast or the motive . We are yet to conclusively identify the group behind the explosion . The matter is under investigation , Joint Commissioner of Police ( Special Cell ) R.S. Krishnia said on Thursday . Also , it is difficult to comment on the composition and nature of the bomb as we are awaiting the Central Forensic Science Laboratory 's report . The explosives kept in a case resembling a toilet-kit bag went off near Gate No. 7 . A battery-like object , wires and some nails were also found on the site by forensic experts . A white powder , suspected to be ammonium nitrate , was used . Several theories Though senior police officers remained tight-lipped about the investigation , sources said they were working on several theories . According to one theory , the bomb was meant to be planted in the court , but the culprit could not gain entry to the premises and abandoned the bag in the parking lot . Another is that the crude bomb was not meant to cause any major damage , and could be the handiwork of some disgruntled elements . Some eyewitnesses are reported to have told the police that they had seen a motorcyclist coming from the direction of the parked car minutes before the explosion . We have been trying to get the description of the motorcyclist the culprits could have come on foot or in a car . It seems the target has been chosen carefully as there are no closed-circuit television cameras there , a senior police officer said . Crude bomb was not meant to cause damage , feel policeCentral Forensic Science Lab report awaited Crude bomb was not meant to cause damage , feel police Central Forensic Science Lab report awaited . A Supreme Court Bench hearing Abdul Nasir Maudany 's bail plea was on Wednesday divided , with Justice Markandey Katju favouring the grant of bail , and his counterpart , Justice Gyan Sudha Misra , disagreeing with his view . The Bench , after elaborate arguments from senior counsel Shanti Bhushan , appearing for Mr. Maudany , an accused in the LOC_Event bomb blast case , and senior counsel T.R. Andhyarujina , appearing for Karnataka , requested Chief Justice of India S.H. Kapadia to post the matter before another Bench , preferably before the court closes for the summer vacation on May 13 . Mr. Bhushan pleaded for granting Mr. Maudany bail on medical grounds as he was suffering from several ailments . He asserted that there was no evidence against him and that he had been falsely implicated on the basis of some statements given by the co-accused before the police , and which was not admissible as evidence . He alleged that the State government due to political and communal reasons had implicated Mr. Maudany as he was a powerful political and social leader of the Muslim community . Mr. Andhyarujina , however , said there were enough materials to show the involvement of Mr. Maudany not only in the conspiracy but also in the blasts that occurred in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and other parts of the country . He said the other accused had clearly stated the role played by Mr. Maudany , which was reflected by the telephone calls he made to the other accused before and after the bomb blasts . His release on bail would pose a serious threat to national security as he was part of the jihadi ' element , having connections with banned outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba ( LeT ) and the Students Islamic Movement of India , he said . Justice Katju said there was no material to implicate Mr. Maudany and that he could be granted bail . He cited the instance of the Supreme Court releasing Dr. Binayak Sen on bail , though the trial court and the High Court took a different view . Justice Katju said that since the police were not scientifically trained to deal with serious crimes , they had a tendency to falsely implicate innocent persons . Stating that no comparison could be drawn with Dr. Sen 's case , Mr. Andhyarujina said : Please do no have that analogy . The case of Binayak Sen is different . We are all proud of that decision . This case is different . The man Maudany has been accused of killing over 100 people . You can not have a comparison like that . Justice Gyan Sudha did not accept the contention of Mr. Bhushan and said : If your argument that police can't arrest persons on the basis of statements made by a co-accused to the police , then no arrests could be made till trial was over and the person was convicted . We better change the Cr . P.C that no person be arrested and put in jail until he or she is convicted . You have to satisfy the conscience of this court that he is innocent despite sufficient material to prove his involvement in the blast . You have not shown even one material to show that he is innocent . Since there was difference of opinion between the two Judges , the matter has been referred to the CJI for posting the case before another Bench . Nearly a year after taking up the probe into the Samjhauta Express blasts case , the National Investigation Agency on Monday filed a charge sheet in the Special Court , NIA , at Panchkula , Haryana , against five accused persons . The accused are Naba Kumar Sarkar alias Swami Asimanand , Sunil Joshi ( now dead ) , Lokesh Sharma , Sandeep Dange and Ramchandra Kalasangra alias Ramji . The blasts on the Attari Express , also known as the Samjhauta Express , near LOC_Event , on February 18 , 2007 , and the consequent fire in the coaches killed 68 passengers and injured 12 others . Not only Indian civilians and government officials , but also a large number of Pakistani nationals were killed and injured . A bi-weekly train that runs on Wednesdays and Sundays between Delhi and Attari in India and Lahore in Pakistan , the Samjhauta Express has played a key role in improving people-to-people contacts . The initial investigation was carried out by the Railway Police and the Haryana Police ; on July 26 last year , the Union Home Ministry handed over the probe to the NIA , which registered the case on July 29 . NIA sleuths fanned out to several parts of the country to unravel the conspiracy . Numerous witnesses and suspects were examined and material evidence was collected . The investigation , conducted over almost one year , established that the entire conspiracy was hatched between 2005 and 2007 by Swami Asimanand , Sunil Joshi and his associates such as Ramji , Sandeep Dange , Lokesh Sharma and others at different places in Gujarat , Madhya Pradesh and other States . Investigation further brought out that Swami Asimanand was quite upset with the Jehadi/terrorist attacks on temples Akshardham ( Gujarat ) , Raghunath Mandir ( Jammu ) and Sankat Mochan Mandir ( Varanasi ) . He used to give vent ' to his feelings while holding discussions with Sunil Joshi and his associates . Over a period of time , they developed a deep sense of vengeance for not only the Jehadi terrorists , but unfortunately against an entire minority community as such , the charge sheet said . Bomb for bomb theory As a result , Swami Asimanand propounded abomb ka badla bomb bomb for bomb theory . The Samjhauta Express was particularly chosen , as most of its passengers are Pakistani citizens . He not only provided financial and logistical support to the terror group which executed this dastardly act but also played a vital role in instigating and motivating his associates to undertake this terrorist act , it said . Sandeep Dange , Ramji , Lokesh Sharma and others , acting under the leadership of Sunil Joshi , were instrumental in procuring the raw materials for building Improvised Explosive Devices and getting them fabricated and planted . At least 10 people were killed and double the number injured in a bomb blast at a bakery in the LOC_Event area of the LOC_Event province on Sunday night . The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan claimed responsibility for planting the remote-controlled device in a dustbin at the entrance of the bakery . Since the bakery was located in a crowded market place , more casualties were feared , particularly since the bomb was activated during the Sunday rush-hour . The explosion also triggered a fire . The police are on the lookout for a Santro car that was reportedly spotted near Gate No. 5 of the LOC_Event shortly before the bomb went off on Wednesday morning . It is learnt that a team conducted searches in Yamuna Vihar in this connection . However , no breakthrough was reported till late in the evening . While statements of the injured persons are being recorded to reconstruct the sequence of events leading up to the incident , the police are trying to find its similarities with the May 25 low-intensity blast outside Gate No. 7 . Wednesday connection Both the blasts were carried out on a Wednesday , said to be the Public Interest Litigation day in the High Court . While there is more rush on Wednesdays , the timing was also chosen to ensure that maximum casualty was caused . The court proceedings were to commence and a large number of people had queued up to collect their entry passes . It was a well-planned terror attack . They must have conducted reconnaissance in the area before they struck , said a police officer . Police sources said there was some difference in the mixture of explosives used in both the blasts . Ammonium nitrate and some fuel oil were used in the previous case , said another police officer . In the wake of the blasts , anti-sabotage checks were carried out in all the Jammu-bound trains following an input . It was yet another busy weekday morning for scores of lawyers and litigants who had gathered outside Gate No. 5 of the LOC_Event on Wednesday when a deafening explosion shattered the calm . Wednesday morning was no different . People , mostly litigants , had started gathering outside the court gate around 10 a.m. for entry passes . I was standing just a few feet away from the reception counter guarding the construction material when I was suddenly thrown off by a loud explosion . There was smoke all around and nothing could be seen for the next few minutes . When the smoke dissipated , it was a heart-rending scene with pieces of flesh strewn around and blood spattered everywhere . The injured were writhing in pain and crying for help and those who were lucky to have escaped unhurt could be seen running helter-skelter causing complete chaos , said private security guard Shyam Bihari Lal , who considers himself lucky to have survived to tell the tale . Deafening sound Pradeep , a supervisor at the underground parking site opposite the spot , first mistook it for a cylinder blast at the construction site before he realised that it was a bomb blast . For me , the day had just begun and I was busy giving directions to the labourers when I heard a deafening sound . I first thought it was a cylinder blast . But then I could hear people screaming for help and rushed towards the spot . I saw people piled over each other completely soaked in blood near the counter . Such was the intensity of the blast that pieces of torn clothes and flesh could be seen hanging from trees . The scene was so gory that some of our labourers who helped the injured later complained of uneasiness themselves , said Pradeep . Police quick Within no time , several police vehicles and ambulances arrived at the spot and the injured were removed to hospitals . The response of the police was quick . There were over 30 police vehicles and ambulances outside the court within a few minutes of the blast . The ambulances inside the High Court were also pressed into service and the injured were shifted to hospitals . The labourers at the construction site also reached the spot carrying stretches and helped the rescue teams , said Sunil , who drives the car of a lawyer and was present at the spot . Witness to 2 blasts The intensity of the blast could be gauged from the fact that labourers working in an under-construction underground parking lot also felt the earth tremble . We were a group of 30 labourers working in the underground parking when the blast took place . We were several feet under the ground , but still felt the shivers , said Ghanshyam . High Court lawyer Sugreev Dubey , who was also a witness to the earlier blast at the LOC_Event in May , said that latest blast was several times more powerful . Completely shaken I was inside the court premises waiting for my client to take an entry pass and was a few steps away from the counter when the bomb exploded . It went off with such a loud sound that I could not hear properly for a few minutes after the blast and was completely shaken . When the blast took place in May earlier , I was having a coffee at the canteen just a few meters away . But it was not half as powerful compared to the explosion today . Later in the day , All-India Congress Committee general-secretary Rahul Gandhi also paid a brief visit to the spot . Pieces of torn clothes and flesh could be seen hanging from trees , says a survivor A lawyer witness to 2 blasts in LOC_Event this year says this is a lot more powerful . One person was killed and two others sustained minor injuries in a powerful explosion triggered by home-made Deepavali bombs , at a house at LOC_Event in LOC_Event suburb near here on Friday evening . Assistant Commissioner of Police ( Madhurawada ) K. Rajendra Rao said that it emerged from a preliminary inquiry that K. Prasad , a cellphone mechanic , and Arasavilli Vinodh ( 19 ) were making cracker bombs in the house of the former . The explosion occurred when Vinodh was engaged in making bombs . At the time Prasad had gone out on an errand . The bombs made of sulphur and potassium went off , ripping the outer portion of the building . The impact of the explosion was so powerful that Vinodh died on the spot . According to local people , a gas cylinder exploded simultaneously . All the household goods suffered extensive damage . The blast ripped apart wooden furniture and refrigerator , besides causing massive cracks on the walls and sunshades . Lakshmi , living in the neighbourhood , suffered minor injuries and was in a state of shock . The injured were rushed to the King George Hospital where they were given first aid . The LOC_Event outpost police are investigating . At least 40 people were killed and 90 wounded , most of them soldiers , when three car bombs struck the heart of LOC_Event 's second city LOC_Event on Wednesday , a monitoring group said . A medical source said that at least 40 people were killed and 90 injured , said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights . Most of them were regime troops . Meanwhile , official television channel Al-Ikhbariya said 31 people were killed and dozens wounded . The toll could rise because many people were badly injured , a city official told AFP , shortly after three bombs exploded around LOC_Event , near a military officers ' club and a hotel . Two of the blasts hit the area near the club within a minute of each other . A third car bomb then exploded some 150 metres way in the LOC_Event district , at the entrance of of Aleppo . A mother and her newborn baby were among six family members killed in a roadside bombing in eastern LOC_Event overnight , police and witnesses said on Sunday . The victims were heading home from the hospital after the mother had given birth when the bomb planted by Taliban insurgents tore through their vehicle in LOC_Event province on the Pakistan border , police said . Five other civilians were killed in two separate roadside bomb blasts in the southern province of LOC_Event on Sunday . The Peoples Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak ( Prepak ) has claimed responsibility for the bomb blast on Monday night in LOC_Event that claimed the life of construction worker A. Kom and injured another seriously . In a statement , the underground organisation said the blast was inadvertent and premature as the bomb was supposed to have exploded elsewhere , and apologised to people . While family members of the deceased have been assured of something meaningful by the government , police and paramilitary personnel have beefed up security measures in and around LOC_Event . In a simulated seaborne terrorist attack on a high-value land target , three armed operatives made landfall at an isolated stretch of the shoreline here , foxed the police , and infiltrated the well guarded LOC_Event to plant a bomb there at rush hour on Tuesday . The Indian Navys Joint Operations Centre had launched the 48-hour counter-terrorism exercise code-named Operation Gemini on Monday to test the preparedness of the State and Central agencies to combat seaborne terrorist threats and infiltration bids . The operation involved the Navy , Coast Guard , Indian Air Force , and neighbourhood watch committees comprising shore dwellers and seagoing fishermen . The Navy had earlier informed the State police of an imminent seaborne terrorist threat . The police upped its presence at potential landing points along the States 600-km long coastline and put its resources , including civilian look-outs at sea and near the shore , on alert . The agents , two Navy operatives and one Coast Guard man , arrived off the Varkala coast in a seagoing vessel with a shallow draft , which enabled it to operate in waters close to the shore . The agents hailed a small fishing boat and pleaded the fishermen to drop them ashore urgently under the pretext that one of them was ill . The fishermen dropped the agents in a remote stretch of the coast near Chilakoor around 5.30 a.m. . The agents donned the type of dress commonly worn by white-collar workers and took a bus from Attingal bus stand to LOC_Event at LOC_Event . The agents skipped the main security gate and entered the States IT hub through an unmanned path used by IT employees to access local eateries outside the expansive campus . They reached the portals of the Nila building , which houses scores of IT firms , flashed their identity cards to the security , and made their way into the complex along with a lot of employees at 9.30 a.m. . They placed a small cardboard box marked RDX Bomb in a remote corner of the building , alerted the police , and vanished . Fire engines , police vehicles , and vans carrying sniffer dogs and men and equipment of the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad ( BDDS ) converged on the campus , causing quite a furore there . The police evacuated the building of employees and the BDDS men , clad in large anti-blast bomb suits and wielding ordnance-detection equipment , scoured the structure for explosives . State Police Commando units and Quick Reaction Teams assisted the search . The police found the bomb an hour later , used robotic equipment to put it in a special compartment designed to withstand blasts and took it to a safe locale to be defused . The operation will conclude on Wednesday . Agents enter LOC_Event through an unmanned pathPolice find the bomb an hour later Agents enter LOC_Event through an unmanned path Police find the bomb an hour later . A local court on Monday granted conditional bail to 2007 LOC_Event bomb blast accused Devendra Gupta and Lokesh Sharma . Nine persons died in the blast . The fourth Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Court granted bail to Gupta and Sharma after executing personal bond of Rs .50,000 each and two sureties of like sum . The court also directed them to surrender their passports , their counsel , N. Ramchander Rao , said . The duo , currently under judicial custody in Jaipur jail in connection with the Ajmer blast case , will however , continue to remain in jail , said Mr Rao . A cell phone controlled pipe bomb went off at LOC_Event on May 18 , 2007 , killing nine people , while five protesters died in police firing after the blast . Two youths were arrested by personnel of Baidyanathpur police station of the city on Wednesday in relation to the case of bombarding at LOC_Event on November 26 . One person had been killed in the bomb blast . Two of the attackers had also been seriously injured when a bomb exploded in their hand by accident . These injured attackers were undergoing treatment in MKCG Medical College Hospital under police custody . According to police sources five persons were involved in that case of bombing . Only one of the accused was still absconding . A roadside bomb killed 10 civilians , including a woman and five children , and wounded eight when it ripped through a van in LOC_Event today , officials said . The families were on their way to visit a relative who had recently returned from Mecca when their vehicle was hit in LOC_Event in rural LOC_Event , district governor Nematullah Khaliqi said . Four of the dead are men , one is a woman and the rest are children . Eight others , men , women and children , are wounded , he said . The death toll was confirmed by Abdullah Hemat , a spokesman for the provincial governor . Roadside bombs are the weapon of choice of hardline Islamist Taliban militants fighting Afghan forces and some 100,000 NATO troops in an effort to topple the government of President Hamid Karzai . While the Taliban say their targets are military , civilians using the same roads are frequently the victims . Earlier this month a roadside bomb killed 17 civilians mostly women and children on their way to a wedding party in western Afghanistan . Afghan weddings are often lavish affairs , drawing hundreds of relatives and guests from far afield in the war-torn land , and the blast took the total toll among wedding guests on the roads to 46 in less than a month . In the first six months of 2012 , a total of 1,145 Afghan civilians were killed and around 2,000 were wounded , mostly by roadside bombs , according to United Nations figures . Women and children accounted for about 30 percent of the casualties . AFP Four of the dead are men , one is a woman and the rest are children . A suicide bomber blew himself up in LOC_Event 's northwestern city of LOC_Event on Wednesday , killing at least six people including a senior police officer , officials said . The blast ripped through a congested part of the city , which lies close to Pakistan 's lawless tribal areas and is frequently hit by bombings , littering the street with blood and body parts , witnesses said . Police official Badshah Khan said the bomber , who was on foot , targeted the vehicle of senior investigator Hilal Haider , killing him and a number of his colleagues . Another officer , Asif Iqbal , told AFP there were six dead including four policemen . Hospital officials and senior administration official Habibullah Arif said more than 30 people were wounded in the blast and some were in a critical condition . Witness Amin Khan described the moment the bomber struck . `` I was in a rickshaw , going to the local market to purchase tea for my shop , '' he said . `` Suddenly a deafening blast shook the area . My rickshaw was overturned . When I came out I saw smoke and dust had covered the blast site , he said . LOC_Event is the capital of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province and a gateway to the semi-autonomous tribal belt along the Afghan border , where Al-Qaeda and Taliban extremists have strongholds . There was no immediate claim of responsibility but the attack came as news of U.S. President Barack Obama 's re-election emerged . Washington is a key focus for the anger of the Islamist militants , many of whom regard the Pakistani state and its representatives , including police officers , as treacherous collaborators . During his first term as president , Obama ramped up the campaign of drone strikes in northwest Pakistan against militants Washington says are planning attacks against America and its forces in Afghanistan . In a BBC opinion poll last week , Pakistan was the only nation where Obama 's Republican rival Mitt Romney scored more highly than the president . Elsewhere on Wednesday , a roadside bomb in the tribal district of LOC_Event killed a police official and wounded 14 other people , local administration official Shamshad Khan said . Suicide and bomb attacks blamed on Islamist insurgents have killed more than 5,200 people across Pakis tan since July 2007 . Three recent arrests by the National Investigation Agency may throw new light on the 2007 Samjhauta Express blasts , the May 2007 LOC_Event in LOC_Event and the LOC_Event explosion in LOC_Event . Rajendra Chaudhary alias Samandar , who was arrested last week from Ujjain district of Madhya Pradesh , had allegedly planted explosives aboard the Samjhauta Express . The train blast claimed 68 lives on February 18 , 2007 . NIA sources said Chaudhary was also suspected to be behind the attack on Delhi University professor S.A.R. Geelani in February 2005 as well as involved in the killing of a witness in Madhya Pradesh in 2008 . Prof. Geelani , who was arrested and chargesheeted by the Delhi Police in the December 13 , 2001 Parliament House terror attack case , was acquitted by the Delhi High Court in October 2003 . Investigators see Chaudharys hand also in the murderous attack on the former RSS pracharak , Sunil Joshi , who was eliminated in December 2007 allegedly to put the lid on a conspiracy by Hindu extremist groups . The NIA arrested Tej Ram from Ujjain . He was suspected to have planted a bomb at the LOC_Event and carried out the explosion that killed nine people . The third person , Dhan Singh , arrested from Chitrakoot on the Uttar Pradesh-Madhya Pradesh border , is suspected to have been involved in the second blast at LOC_Event in 2008 as well as in the Samjhauta blast . Chaudhary is believed to have told NIA investigators that he , along with Dhan Singh , Ramji Kalsangra and Amit alias Ashwini Chauhan , had planted bombs in LOC_Event in 2006 in which 37 people were killed and more than 300 injured . Dhan Singh is also suspected to have planted the bomb in LOC_Event in 2008 that killed seven people . The LOC_Event blasts in 2006 , probed by Maharashtras Anti-Terrorism Squad , were blamed on nine Muslim men . The arrested men claimed that they had been framed . Most of them were freed on bail by court last year . LOC_Event was chosen for bomb attacks twice as it has a sizable Muslim population . In 2011 , Swami Aseemanand admitted that radical Hindu and right-wing extremists were behind the 2006 blasts . He , however , retracted his confession . The NIA is on the lookout for Ramji Kalsangra , Amit and Sandeep Dange , who was a close associate of the slain Sunil Joshi . The investigators believe that the loosely-held module , comprising fringe elements of right-wing extremism , was also behind the blasts in LOC_Event , the LOC_Event and the Samjhauta Express that provides a much sought-after rail link to Pakistan . Four members of a family were injured in a transistor bomb blast at LOC_Event of LOC_Event in LOC_Event of LOC_Event on Friday . According to LOC_Event police , the blast took place on Friday afternoon . The injured are Om Ramesh Nimbalkar ( 32 ) , his wife Usha Nimbalkar ( 25 ) , his mother Kusum Ramesh Nimbalkar ( 55 ) and two-year-old son Kunal . Mr. Nimbalkar , a resident of LOC_Event , who works as a bus conductor in the Ambejogai bus depot , found a parcel in a bus on Friday morning and took it to his house . On opening it , he found a radio set and three cells . His family members were huddled around him when he inserted the cells into the radio . The radio exploded when Mr. Nimbalkar switched it on . According to some reports reaching here , the sound of the explosion could be heard four km away . Dr. Rakesh Jadhav , Deputy Superintendent of Swami Ramanand Tirath Hospital in Beed , where the injured had been admitted , told The Hindu that all four have been referred to the J.J. Hospital in Mumbai now for ophthalmic care . Mr. Nimbalkar and his wife have suffered corneal injuries . All four have suffered fractures on their hands . Mr. Nimbalkar lost his right hand and two fingers of his left hand . Kunal has also suffered heavy corneal injuries , said Dr. Jadhav . Asked if they were out of danger , Dr. Jadhav said : We cant say this at this point of time because some of them have deep injuries . A team of forensic experts have collected samples from the spot . Inspector General , Aurangabad range , Riteish Kumar , Superintendent of Police Dattatray Mandlik , a team of the LOC_Event Anti-Terrorism Squad and a team of the National Investigation Agency have reached the spot . The police are awaiting the preliminary forensic report to ascertain the nature of the bomb . Forensic teams have collected evidence . It has been sent to Aurangabad for preliminary investigation . We are still awaiting the report , Mr. Mandlik told The Hindu . He declined to give any further information . A bomb killed at least 53 Shia pilgrims near the southern port city of LOC_Event on Saturday , an Iraqi official said . It was the latest in a series of attacks during Shia religious commemorations . Basra hospital received 53 killed and 137 wounded after the blast , said Dr. Riyadh Abdul-Amir , the head of Basra Health Directorate . Three persons were injured in a grenade blast in upper LOC_Event 's LOC_Event town on Monday evening . The condition of one of them is stated to be critical . Police said that two unidentified youths reportedly lobbed a grenade in the busy LOC_Event in the heart of LOC_Event town at 6.05 p.m. and sped away in a Maruti van . The glass panes of several vehicles and shops were smashed in the impact . No outfit has so far claimed responsibility . In another incident , security forces recovered a powerful bomb weighing about 5 kg in upper LOC_Event 's LOC_Event town earlier in the day . A woman , who is suspected to have been the courier , has been taken into custody . Initial investigation revealed that bomb was brought from Kakopathar area and was being taken to Sivasagar town . Kamal Chauhan , a disgruntled former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worker arrested by the National Investigation Agency , on Tuesday claimed that he had planted bombs on board the Samjhauta Express in 2007 . The blast left 68 people , mostly Pakistanis , dead . Yes , I have done it on my will , Chauhan told journalists as he was being taken out after in-camera proceedings in the Panchkula court , which granted the NIA his custody till February 24 for questioning him on his role in the blast on the Delhi-Lahore train . A local court on Friday extended the police custody of Naquee Ahmed Wasi Ahmed Sheikh and Nadeem Ahmed Ashfaq Sheikh , two accused arrested by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad ( ATS ) in the LOC_Event triple blasts case last year . Their custody has been extended till February 27 . The ATS officials told the court that they needed their custody for further interrogation as they wanted to take the accused out of Mumbai . They did not disclose to the court where they want to take them , Sharif Sheikh , lawyer of the accused , told The Hindu . Three bombs went off at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event on July 13 last year . Initially arrested in the LOC_Event blast case , Nadeem and Naquee were booked in the LOC_Event blast case as well a week ago . The ATS has accused Naquee of helping two wanted accused in the blasts for finding accommodation in the city . They charged both Naquee and Nadeem of staying with the absconding accused at the Habib building in the city . Naquee 's family members have charged the ATS of harassment , saying that the agency was putting undue pressure on the family not to talk to the media . The ATS has arrested four persons in the case till now . Taking a cue from the Israeli Embassy car blast , a movie vendor allegedly bombed the vehicle of a businessman with a crude explosive device at LOC_Event here in a bid to extort Rs .5 crore from him . The police claim to have seized from him a crude bomb and a consignment of potassium sulphide . Pramod Jain was on his way to attend a function along with his family when he heard a loud explosion from the rear end of his car near LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Wednesday . Taking it to be a cracker thrown by some mischievous children , the businessman did not report the matter to the police . The next day , Mr. Jain received a call followed by a text message from an unknown number demanding a ransom of Rs .5 crore . Threatening call The caller threatened to injure him and his members if the demand was not met . Investigations revealed the mobile number used to make the call and send the text message had been procured using forged documents and had been in use since May . The police zeroed in on the user and identified him as Gyanender , an acquaintance of the businessman , who supplied movie DVDs at this residence on rent . Potassium sulphide seized The police then raided Gyanender 's residence and seized potassium sulphide and a crude bomb that explodes on impact . During interrogation , he purportedly disclosed that he had prepared two crude bombs and on Wednesday , tailed the businessman 's car on his motorcycle . Gyanender threw one the bombs at the rear bumper of the vehicle , which caused the blast . Based on the findings , the police have arrested Gyanender and seized the mobile phone used in the commission of crime . Accused threw a crude bomb at rear bumper of vehicleCalled , SMSed victim demanding Rs.5-crore ransom Accused threw a crude bomb at rear bumper of vehicle Called , SMSed victim demanding Rs.5-crore ransom . The delay in reconstruction of the blast in the Israeli Embassy car bombing case is being attributed primarily to the excessive use of water to extinguish the fire in the vehicle triggered by the explosion . Experts believe that it destroyed several crucial pieces of evidence essential for reconstructing the bomb used in the attack . What was the need for using so much water ? Had there been a coordinated response to secure the blast site , it would have been much easier to collect samples , said an expert at Truth Labs , a non-government forensic laboratory . The team of experts collected mostly vehicle parts , like wheel-cups and other bulky articles . Most parts of the explosive device were lost due to excessive use of water and other factors , said the expert . The police had earlier revealed that magnet pieces were found at the spot , which was used to attach the improvised explosive device to the car . It is learnt that the magnet was of a special kind , a flexible one that can attach to even uneven surfaces . Such magnets , resembling PBC sheets , are available in the capital as well , revealed the expert . Magnet pieces were also found attached to the rear portion of the car . While the police are yet to receive the final report from the Central Bureau of Investigation 's Central Forensic Science Laboratory , the expert said a high explosive was used along with some incendiary material to enhance its effect . It ripped through the rear metal portion of the vehicle , creating a fragment effect . The small metal parts acted as fragments , he said . Use of watches as timers in explosive devices is now pass , as even one-minute timer circuits are today readily available in the market which can be used with ease . However , the police are yet to clarify if a timer was used in the device . The fact that splinters were not used in the bomb suggests that it was a specific-target oriented attack . The aim was to target the Israeli embassy vehicle and not passersby . Its impact was localised despite the incident taking place in the open with several vehicles stationed at the traffic junction . Stating that the type of bomb is categorised on the basis of the switch mechanism on which it explodes , the expert said the device could be called a sticky bomb only in common parlance . The glass pieces found at the spot were of the rear windscreen that was shattered by the explosion . It is a misconception that they were part of the device , he said , adding all the materials that could be used to configure such a bomb were locally available . In another development , the police have recorded the statement of Tal Yehoshua Koren , the embassy official and wife of the Israel defence attach who had sustained serious injuries in the explosion . The police teams have been visiting the blast site over and over again to reconstruct the sequence of events . An explosion in a heap of garbage shattered windowpanes of several flats at LOC_Event of LOC_Event on Thursday . While panicked residents mistook it for a bomb blast , police suspect it to be a cracker explosion . Municipal contract workers set fire to trash which they swept to a corner of an open plot abutting an apartment building LOC_Event around noon . As the waste-papers and dry grass burned , there was an explosion . Windowpanes of all the flats of LOC_Event facing the open plot and some apartments in adjacent complexes were shattered . None was injured though . I came rushing as my children study in a school here , Ahmed , a plumber from Rajaram Colony , said . He heaved a sigh of relief after finding that the explosion had nothing to do with the school . But students of the school said they felt like running away from their classes on hearing the massive sound . Owner of the open plot where explosion occurred , Sundeep , said the blast could be due to accidental ignition of some explosive materials left behind by contractors who laid an underground drainage pipeline in the area . I am told detonators or explosive substances abandoned by the contractors may have got mixed in the garbage . Unaware of it , the sweepers set it on fire , he said . LOC_Event Inspector S. Bheem Reddy , however , maintained that all evidence at the spot proved the explosion occurred due to abandoned firecrackers . Will the explosion from leftover firecrackers be so powerful as to shatter windowpanes at a height of 50 feet ? It looks like heavy scrap was lying over the firecrackers which must have created high pressure , the Inspector reasoned out . Sniffer dogs , bomb disposal and CLUES team inspected the spot . A court here on Monday issued open warrants against three Iranian nationals who Delhi police allege were involved in the February 13 bombing of an Israeli diplomat 's car . Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vinod Yadav issued the open warrant on the application moved by the Special Cell of Delhi Police . The Special Cell told the court that the trio had left the country immediately after the blast but their whereabouts were yet to be ascertained . An open warrant will allow authorities to proceed legally against the three men when they are apprehended . Application rejected Meanwhile , the court rejected freelance journalist Syed Mohammed Ahmad Kazmi 's application seeking copies of documents and evidence based on which his arrest had been made , pointing out that the matter was still in the investigation stage . LOC_Event on Tuesday was rocked by a nationwide string of bombings that killed at least 43 people and put on edge authorities who are set to host next week the Arab summit a symbol of the country 's diplomatic resurgence after years of conflict . An explosion in LOC_Event targeted the Foreign Ministry , where dozens of employees have been working round the clock for the summit . The car blast killed three people outside the Ministry but failed to breach the outer security perimeter of the building . The bombing was a grisly reminder of the attack on the Foreign and Finance ministries in 2009 that killed scores of people . Another attack in the capital 's LOC_Event neighbourhood killed five Shia pilgrims . Tuesday 's bombings appeared indiscriminate , targeting Shia pilgrims , a Sunni stronghold in Anbar province , civilians and security personnel . They also took place on the eve of the ninth anniversary of the invasion of LOC_Event led by the United States . LOC_Event , a major Shia pilgrim centre , was badly hit when a car bomb exploded at LOC_Event . Thirteen pilgrims , including four from Iran , were killed . Explosions also rocked LOC_Event and LOC_Event , both Shia dominated cities , and the LOC_Event , where the concentration of Sunnis is higher . At least 10 security personnel were killed in LOC_Event , which sits over huge reserves of oil whose control has been the source of conflict among the area 's ethnically and religiously divided communities . The attack took place in the early hours when the shift of personnel stationed overnight was changing . One person was killed on the spot in a blast at a tea shop in LOC_Event on LOC_Event around 6.20 p.m. on Monday . The shop was destroyed in the blast while a woman aged around 60 years escaped with minor injuries , Deputy Superintendent of Police , LOC_Event , V. Kasi Viswanathan said . Mr. Viswanathan told The Hindu that two persons , including a man carrying the country bomb came to the tea shop of T. Kanthalakshmi ( 60 ) on the Krishnagiri National Highway . The bomb accidently went off when one of them stepped on it from a bench after having tea . He was killed on the spot . The identity of the man was not known immediately and in the impact of the blast his body parts were strewn around . The other man who came along with him fled . Doctors said that Ms. Kanthalakshmi 's ear drum had been affected . They referred her to a hospital in Salem . The duo came on a bike with registration number TN 23 AQ 5727 . The police ruled out the use of gelatine sticks or other high-intensity explosives . They said the country made bomb , weighing about one kg , is generally used for killing wild boars invading fields . Forensic experts are collecting samples from the place of blast . Abishek Dixit , SP , and R. Sathish , Revenue Divisional Officer rushed to the spot . T. Srinivasan ( as per Army records ) , who died after a country bomb he was carrying exploded at a tea shop in LOC_Event , and his associates were planning to rob bank staff carrying cash for an automated teller machine ( ATM ) just before they loaded the machine , the police said on Wednesday . Three persons , including a minor , have been arrested in the bomb blast case . The minor will be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board in Salem . The others , G. Viji ( 22 ) and P. Sakthivel ( 22 ) were produced before the LOC_Event Judicial Magistrate M. Ramachandran and remanded to police custody . They will be lodged in Salem Central Prison . Superintendent of Police Abishek Dixit told reporters here that the victim and his associates had checked out two State Bank of India ATMs at Tirupatthur and Viswamanagalam before zeroing in on the Indian Bank ATM at LOC_Event , which does not have a guard . The boy , who was injured in the blast , went to Tirupathur for treatment . He was caught by the police and brought to the Samalpatti police station for enquiry on Tuesday . The police interrogated him till late in the night . It was yet to be established from where the victim sourced materials for the country bomb , including gelatine sticks . The dealer would be traced and action initiated against him . The body of the victim was handed over to relatives after post-mortem at a Salem hospital . The forensic report is yet to be received . The Uthangarai police have registered a case under the IPC and the Indian Explosive Substances Act . Three persons , including a minor , have been arrested . At least two persons were killed and 25 injured in a bomb explosion inside the LOC_Event on Tuesday evening . The bomb was apparently placed in a bag left at the waiting area for the recently launched luxury train , Business Express . The blast took place around 7 p.m. on Platform No. 2 of the railway station . Given the tight security arrangements at the railway station , the biggest concern of the authorities was how the bomber managed to get the explosives past the various levels of screening in and around the premises . According to the police , about five kg of explosives had been packed into the bag . No organisation had claimed responsibility for the blast till at least two hours after the blast . Pakistani police defused a bomb on a passenger train in the country 's northwest on Wednesday , officials said , hours after a blast at a station in the eastern city of LOC_Event killed two people . A guard found the bomb in a briefcase in the early hours of the morning on the train from Karachi to Peshawar , the main town in the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province , near the Afghan border . Two policemen were injured in a bomb blast allegedly triggered by the anti-talk faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) at LOC_Event in LOC_Event of LOC_Event . According to the police , a group of security personnel went to LOC_Event 's main market on Saturday night acting on a tip-off and found a suspicious packet at a vegetable shop . The blast took place while the police were inspecting the packet . Police personnel Anil Nath and Prabodh Sonowal sustained minor injuries in the explosion . Their condition is stated to be stable . Meanwhile , in an e-mail to the media , ULFA anti-talk faction publicity department member Joy Asom claimed responsibility for the blast . The incident comes at a time when security forces in Assam are in a state of alert in the run-up to ULFA 's foundation day on April 7 . S. Sukannthan ( 27 ) who was injured along with his accomplice Sathya ( 32 ) while making country bombs early on Friday morning at LOC_Event lost six of his fingers in the explosion . Sukanthan was admitted to Stanley Medical College Hospital for treatment after the blast and was later shifted to the Royapettah GH . The doctors found he had lost four fingers on his right hand and two on his left when they removed his bandages . A blast hit troops escorting UN observers in LOC_Event 's restive south on Wednesday , an AFP photographer said , a day after envoy Kofi Annan warned his peace plan could be the last chance to avoid civil war . The explosive device , which appeared to have been planted underground , detonated as the convoy of four vehicles entered the town of LOC_Event , cradle of a 14-month uprising against President Bashar al-Assad 's regime . Major General Robert Mood of Norway , the head of the UN mission , was in the convoy but escaped unharmed along with 11 other observers and his spokesman Neeraj Singh , said the photographer who was travelling in the convoy . The bomb attack was the latest breach of a month-old ceasefire agreement that UN-Arab League envoy Annan said could be the last chance to avert a civil war in LOC_Event . Opposition bloc the Syrian National Council accused the regime of being behind the blast . Arguments over bail petition of Bharat Bhai , one of the accused persons in 2007 Mecca Masjid bomb blasts case , were completed at the Nampally Criminal Court here on Thursday . The court , however , posted the matter for May 15 for orders . Bharat Mohan Lal Rateswar alias Bharat Bhai from Gujarat was arrested by the National Investigation Agency last year for allegedly providing financial and logistical support to carry out the blast at LOC_Event . A powerful blast inside a house at LOC_Event under the LOC_Event police station limits here on Sunday ripped off the house and left a youth seriously injured , raising suspicion that the explosion could have occurred while handling country-made bombs . The police said the people in the locality heard a huge sound of explosion at around 10 a.m. . The house where the explosion took place was at LOC_Event , near LOC_Event , which is a politically sensitive area in the district . A youth identified as Roshith ( 22 ) , who the police described as a worker of the Democratic Youth Federation of India ( DYFI ) , sustained serious burns in the blast . After preliminary treatment at a hospital here , he was rushed to a hospital in Mangalore , the police said . The police said the youth suffered serious injuries on his left hand . He also sustained burns on his legs and face . The house with tiled roof , where he was staying with his parents , was completely damaged in the explosion . Both his parents were not at home when the explosion occurred . District Superintendent of Police Rahul R. Nair rushed to the area after the bomb explosion . Police personnel led by three Circle Inspectors conducted extensive raids in the area in search of explosives . When contacted , the district police chief told The Hindu that the preliminary inference of the police was that some explosive material kept at the house went off . It had to be confirmed by scientific report whether it was caused by gun powder or country-made bombs , he said . Four people were killed and nearly 30 wounded when a bomb attached to a motorbike went off near a crowd of protesters in LOC_Event on Monday . The group of 150 demonstrators in the city of LOC_Event , 20 km from the Indian border , were staging a sit-in to demand a separate province for Maithili-speaking people when the bike exploded . One of the protesters died on the spot while three died on their way to hospital . We have referred around seven seriously injured victims for treatment to Kathmandu , local police chief Basanta Raj Gautam told AFP . Over 20 people who sustained minor injures from the blast are being treated at various hospitals in the district . The protesters had been taking part in a strike in LOC_Event to demand the new province in the Terai plains . There were around 150 persons sitting in the protest ... when the bomb went off . We have increased security in the area but no one has taken responsibility for the incident , Mr. Gautam said . A blast occurred on the premises of the Arakandanallur police station near here on Friday night , damaging window panes in the building . It created panic among police personnel and residents of the locality . Deputy Inspector-General of Police ( Villupuram Range ) K. Shanmugavel , Superintendent of Police N. Bhaskaran along with a contingent of police personnel rushed to the spot . Mr. Shanmugavel told The Hindu that it was a low-intensity explosion from a dump of fireworks seized from unlicensed vendors . The fireworks were kept in the space between the new and old buildings of the police station . Owing to high daytime temperature , the fireworks might have caught fire and exploded . Nobody was injured in the blast , Mr. Shanmugavel said . Mr. Bhaskaran told this correspondent that Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad personnel , who had come from Chennai , examined the residue . They concluded that it was the kind of fireworks being used in rural areas during local festivals . Had it been a crude bomb or any sort of improvised explosive device , a crater would have formed . In this case , the blast did not affect the floor . Therefore , the role of anti-social elements or any sabotage attempt was ruled out . At least 12 people were killed and over 100 wounded in a double car bombing in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event , the deadliest militant strike for months in the troubled region , officials said on Friday . The massive blasts outside the main city of LOC_Event sent huge yellow flames into the night sky , reduced cars to burned wreckage and ripped a crater into the ground , television pictures showed . Investigators said the first blast went off on the outskirts of the city of LOC_Event in the LOC_Event when a Lada car laden with explosives was detonated near a traffic police post damaging nearby buildings and cars but causing no fatalities . The second car bomb went off fifteen minutes later hitting policemen , rescue workers and passers-by who gathered at the scene , investigators said . The twin attacks appeared to bear the hallmarks of bombings conducted by radical militants fighting the Kremlin in the LOC_Event where they seek to establish an Islamist state . The blasts were by far the deadliest attacks in the LOC_Event this year and deal a huge blow to Kremlin hopes of restoring relative stability to a region that has been a headache for Moscow since the collapse of the former USSR . A minor blast in a car at LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Monday evening created panic in the area . According to a Delhi Police spokesperson , preliminary investigations suggested that the radiator of the car exploded because of the heat . Though no injuries were reported , the bomb disposal squad and the forensic team were called in . The incident took place around 10 p.m. . The Principal Sessions Judge and Designated Judge under TADA Act , P.Velmurugan on Wednesday convicted two persons in the case pertaining to a bomb blast on railway track near LOC_Event in 1992 . The Judge awarded life imprisonment to S.Senthilkumar and sentenced D.Periyasamy to undergo five-year rigorous imprisonment . The bomb blast on railway track took place in October 1992 between LOC_Event and LOC_Event in the wee hours minutes before the ChennaiQuilon Express was to pass through damaging wooden sleepers and rails to a length of 20 feet . The case initially registered by the Vriddhachalam Railway Police was subsequently transferred to the Q Branch police , LOC_Event , for further investigation . Five persons Senthilkumar , Periyasamy , Lenin , Seeliyampatti Rajaram and Nagarajan were cited as accused in the bomb blast case . They were members of Tamil Nadu Viduthalai Padai and Tamil Nadu Makkal Viduthalai Padai . The case was registered under the TADA Act , Explosive Substances Act , and the Indian Railway Act . Lenin was killed in a blast later , while Rajaram and Nagarajan died in an encounter with police . A total number of 41 witnesses were examined by the prosecution during the course of the trial . Two miscreants terrorised the market place at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on Monday afternoon . They came on a motorcycle and hurled crude bombs at a foreign liquor shop . No one was injured by the blast of these crude bombs . The miscreants managed to escape from the spot . According to polices sources rivalry related to liquor trading may be the reason behind the attack . A bomb attack killed at least six people outside a party political meeting in LOC_Event 's troubled southwestern city of LOC_Event on Friday , police said . The bomb was detonated by remote control as the secular Pashtun nationalist Awami National Party ( ANP ) held a public meeting on the outskirts of Baluchistan province , which borders Afghanistan and Iran . The death toll in the blast has risen to six , local police official Wazir Khan Nasir said . He also added the bomb had been planted on a bicycle , adding that those killed in the attack also included a young girl while six others were wounded . Baluchistan is one of the most deprived areas of LOC_Event where Baluch rebels rose up in 2004 , demanding political autonomy and a greater share of profits from the oil , gas and mineral resources in the region . With indiscriminate violence having arrived in LOC_Event , India is thinning down its mission in Syria and evacuating family members of those who will remain . In the haven for expatriates from nearby countries , there are , however , few Indians and those who have remained are being asked to leave by available flights , External Affairs Ministry spokesman Syed Akbaruddin said at a news briefing here on Tuesday . We are advising the Indians to leave the country . After an assessment of the security situation , the families of embassy staff are being evacuated , he said . Although Syria is home to displaced Palestinians and Iraqis , besides people of many other nationalities and faiths , there were only 900 Indians when powerful bomb blasts starting rocking LOC_Event . Now there are about 100 left including the embassy staff and a few from Mother Teresas Missionaries of Charity . Last week , the Government issued a travel advisory warning Indians against visiting the country , where attacks against unarmed civilians by the Free Syrian Army and some shadowy groups have escalated in their struggle against the Bashar al-Assad regime . A bomb attack last week claimed the lives of Syrian Defence Minister and Mr. Assad 's brother-in-law . Security at vital installations and residences of senior government functionaries in the Capital was stepped up in the wake of a series of low-intensity blasts in LOC_Event on Wednesday . The security personnel deployed at the 7 Race Course Road residence of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh were alerted and the entire area surrounding the bungalow barricaded soon after the blasts , which obstructed smooth vehicular flow . A high alert was sounded in the city and all the police stations besides special units instructed to keep a watch on any suspicious activity . Extra security personnel were also deployed in and around Metro stations , particularly those located near vital installations like Parliament and railway stations . Bomb detection and disposal squads are on stand-by . All emergency services have been activated to meet any contingency , said an officer . Not ruling out the terror angle in Wednesdays serial blasts in LOC_Event , Maharashtra Home Minister R.R. Patil on Thursday said only the detonators in the Improvised Explosive Devices exploded , leaving behind the other material in the bombs . Speaking to the media after a fortnightly meeting to review intelligence and security , he said prima facie , ammonium nitrate appeared to be the material used , but only a laboratory analysis can confirm it . He said there had been no specific intelligence alert for the blasts . A joint team of the Anti Terrorism Squad ( ATS ) and the Pune Crime Branch were investigating the blasts along with central investigating agencies . Set off by electronic timers , four IEDs exploded , injuring one person , even as two bombs were defused . The injured man , Dayanand Patil , a tailor , who was caught in a blast after someone placed a bomb in his bag , is being questioned by the police . Dayanand Patil is allegedly a member of social activist Anna Hazare 's India Against Corruption movement , but the IAC has not been linked as yet to the blasts , the Minister said . Wednesdays reports said Dayanand Patil was walking away from the IAC protest venue near LOC_Event when the bomb exploded . Mr. Patil refused to speak further on this issue , saying making anything public now would jeopardise the investigation . The police gathered CCTV footage from the area on Thursday morning . Denying reports that some CCTV cameras were not working , Mr. Patil said there was adequate material available and the police were going through it . High alert The Minister was confident that the case would be cracked soon . The security agencies are on a high alert in the State after the serial blasts and Mr. Patil appealed to the public not to touch any suspicious object and to report to the police any signs of suspicious activity or movement . Case of revenge ? While no one has been detained , police are questioning a few people in Pune . After the June murder of Qateel Sheikh , suspected to be linked to the Indian Mujahideen , in Yerawada jail , the Pune police commissioner had received an anonymous letter vowing revenge for Sheikh 's death . Mr. Patil said the police were investigating any possible link between the letter and the blasts . The former Gujarat Bajrang Dal president , Babu Bajrangi , recently sentenced to life imprisonment till death in the 2002 Naroda-Patiya massacre case , was assaulted in the Sabarmati jail dispensary here on Tuesday by some accused in the 2008 LOC_Event serial bomb blast cases . Jail sources said the incident took place when Mr. Bajrangi was brought to the dispensary for a medical check-up . Four persons , all said to be members of the Indian Mujahideen and housed in the same jail , were in the dispensary when Mr. Bajrangi was brought there . They pounced on him , but he escaped with minor injuries . The jail security staff quickly removed him from the scene . Additional Director-General of Police ( Jails ) P.C. Thakur , however , disagreed there was any physical violence in the jail and claimed that there were only serious verbal altercations between the blasts accused , who were still facing trial , and Mr. Bajrangi , before he was whisked away . We are aware of the security threats to Mr. Bajrangi and the others accused of serious crimes , and we make full security arrangements every time before any of them is brought out of the barracks , he claimed . The jail authorities have ordered an investigation . At least nine people were killed in a blast apparently targeting a vehicle of the Pakistan Air Force in LOC_Event on Wednesday . Together with Tuesday twin blasts in LOC_Event aimed at the Bohra community , bombs have taken 16 lives in 24 hours . The Dawoodi Bohra community has so far never been targeted . Six of the seven killed in LOC_Event , were from the community . The attacks came a day after the visit of Syedi Mufaddal Bhaisaheb Saifuddin , the designated successor of Syedna Mohammad Burhanuddin . Dawn reported that a large number of Bohras from across the country and India were visiting LOC_Event in connection with the visit but no Indians were killed or hurt in the explosions . Army personnel had a narrow escape on Sunday , when a powerful remote-controlled bomb exploded in LOC_Event , near here , seconds after their truck crossed the place on the LOC_Event . The bomb buried near a tree caused a foot-deep crater . A manhunt by the police shortly after the blast drew a blank . So far , no underground organisation has claimed responsibility . Police said the explosion was part of the coordinated violent campaign against the security forces by the United National Liberation Front and the Revolutionary Peoples Front . A suicide bomber attacked a Catholic church conducting Mass in LOC_Event on Sunday , injuring and killing an unknown number of people in a region under assault by a radical Islamist sect . An Associated Press journalist heard the explosion after 9 a.m. Sunday in the city of LOC_Event , which has seen a number of bombings and shootings blamed on the sect known as Boko Haram . The blast appeared to hit a parking lot alongside the St. Johns Catholic Church in the city . Police and military surrounded the church and did not allow journalists inside the cordon . Yushau Shuaib , a spokesman for Nigerias National Emergency Management Agency , said a suicide bomber targeted the church . One person was killed and seven were injured when a bicycle-bomb went off outside a cinema hall in upper LOC_Event town on Monday night . Police suspect that the blast was the handiwork of the Paresh Barua faction of the ULFA . Home Secretary G.D. Tripathi told The Hindu that one critically injured person was shifted to the Assam Medical College in Dibrugarh , while the others were admitted to hospitals in LOC_Event town . It is suspected that an improvised explosive device was used . Had the blast occurred in the evening when the place is crowded , there would have been many more casualties . A powerful bomb blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district in the early hours of Thursday created panic in the locality . The impact was so great that the petty shop where it detonated was totally ripped apart . Tension prevailed at the village since morning . The shop was owned by S. Shanmugam ( 41 ) . After inspecting the blast spot , Superintendent of Police T. Jayachandran said that investigations revealed that the bomb was a powerful one and further investigations were on to find out whether the bomb was stored by some unidentified persons in the shop . The huge cistern at LOC_Event is in for repairs . The mosque authorities have emptied it as it has developed major cracks resulting in the speedy depletion of water . The cistern is used by people for ablutions before offering namaz . During Ramzan the fast depletion of water created problems for worshippers . Therefore , we have decided to repair it properly , said Khaja Nayeemuddin , superintendent , LOC_Event . The cistern got damaged in the bomb blast at the mosque in 2007 . Ever since the water was seeping out but of late the cracks widened causing water to deplete quickly . Last Friday the cistern was completely emptied and the tiles removed to plug the leaks . The National Investigation Agency arrested Dileep Jagpat , 42 , suspected to have been involved in the 2007 Samjhauta Express blast and the 2006 LOC_Event bombing , at Kishanganj on Wednesday . Dileep Jagpat was arrested from Kishanganj area of the district , sources said . The NIA team is camping in western Madhya Pradesh to probe several blast cases , they said . A massive explosion was heard near LOC_Event in LOC_Event late Saturday , hours after villagers near the city detained two youths preparing for suicide bombings . A French military source said the blast occurred some 10 km away from the French military base at the citys airport , but could provide no further details . An AFP correspondent said the blast was audible from LOC_Event , the main city in LOC_Event which was only recaptured from the Islamists late last month . The city was already on edge after what is thought to have been Malis first suicide attack on Friday , when a young Tuareg blew himself up , slightly injuring a Malian soldier . Malian troops reinforced checkpoints with sandbags and heavy machine-guns and stepped patrols . Then on Saturday morning , residents of a village near LOC_Event detained two young men they said were carrying explosive belts on the road leading to the site of Fridays attack . The attacks came as reports said the bodies of several people , including three Arab shopkeepers arrested by troops , had been discovered in a grave in Timbuktu . Timbuktu has been the scene of reprisal attacks by black Malians against Arab and Tuareg residents accused of supporting the Al-Qaeda-linked Islamist rebels who until recently occupied the city . A bomb blast close to the LOC_Event in the poll-bound LOC_Event killed a person on Wednesday morning . Hours after a series of bomb blasts rocked the LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Thursday evening , police sources in Delhi claimed that two suspected members of a terror outfit who were arrested by the Delhi Police Special Cell last year had spoken of conducting a recce of the area in July 2012 . The claim is likely to raise questions about what the Delhi Police did with this information , and whether their counterparts in LOC_Event were alerted about the possibility that terrorists might target LOC_Event . According to Delhi Police sources , the two suspected members of the Indian Mujahideen who were arrested from Hyderabad in October 2012 told interrogators that they had conducted reconnaissance of different parts of Hyderabad in July . They disclosed that they had carried out a survey at LOC_Event and LOC_Event in LOC_Event on a motorcycle to identify places that could be targeted . The Special Cell said it cracked their module following purported revelations by Zabiuddin Ansari alias Abu Jundal , an alleged handler of the 26/11 Mumbai attack . With police claims about Islamist groups being behind various bomb blasts in LOC_Event eventually turning out to be incorrect , police officers in the city have been guarded about speculating on the record about who might be responsible for Thursday 's bombings . Panic and chaos prevailed at the Osmania General Hospital , which received the dead and the injured of the bomb blasts that shook LOC_Event on Thur-sday . Police prevented people from going inside the wards and relatives of the injured were panic-stricken unable to find out the status of their dear ones . Bodies kept piling in the hospital mortuary . Abdul Gaffar , 40 , an auto driver from Santoshnagar , went out during afternoon , and his family next heard of him only after receiving a call in the evening about his being injured in the blast . His wife rushed to the hospital along with their three children , two sons and a daughter . They waited anxiously outside the wards even as the injured were being treated inside with wails of the dear family members renting the air . Injured in dozens could be found in the casualty ward , even after many were shifted to operation theatres . Yadaiah , another Santoshnagar resident and a collection agent with a real estate company , and stayed at Santoshnagar . He was travelling on his two-wheeler when he was injured in the blast near LOC_Event . Someone informed his brother , who rushed to the hospital . Some injured were conscious enough to share horrific details about the blasts . Sudhakar , 38 , a resident of Gaddiannaram , was injured in hands and abdomen . He sells snacks every day near LOC_Event , and heard the sound of a big blast before collapsing with injuries . Same was the case with Saidha Naik , 19 , a B.Tech . ( Civil ) student from Sri Datta Engineering College . He came every day to LOC_Event for attending a class on Autocad and got injured in the blast . C. Ravi , a 35-year-old carpenter was travelling along with his brother-in-law Lakshman on a two-wheeler when the blast happened . I was waiting near the traffic signals when blast occurred . For two months we have been working in LOC_Event and would usually leave only after midnight . On Thursday , we left early due to some work , and got injured in the blast . I can not locate my brother-in-law , he said . Meanwhile a press release from the Ranga Reddy district collectorate informed that the injured have been shifted to Gandhi Hospital , Musheerabad , Omni Hospital , Kothapet and Yashoda Hospital , Malakpet . People rush to help There was no dearth of good Samaritans at the hospital , who helped the relatives and the injured . Many volunteered to donate blood , and some distributed water bottles . Some others took it upon themselves to inform the relatives of the injured about the incident . RTC buses were pressed in to service carry the injured people to the hospital . The scene at the hospital mortuary was heart-rending , as relatives broke down inconsolably after identifying the bodies of their kin . Bloodstains , debris and mangled body parts strewn around were all that remained at the two locations in LOC_Event where blasts happened in quick succession on Thursday evening . Eyewitness accounts recall two blasts between 6.45 p.m. and 7 p.m. near the LOC_Event and LOC_Event , respectively , resulting in widespread mayhem . After the first blast near the bus-stop , panicky crowds rushed towards the Konark theatre before the second bomb went off near a small tiffin centre opposite the theatre . M. Naresh , an MBA student who worked as an intern in an IT consultancy nearby , recalled having seen 20 to 30 people with bleeding injuries running towards a private hospital , soon after the second blast . Five to six mangled bodies were found lying there . The first blast near the bus-stop was no less horrific . I heard a big explosion around 7 p.m. Smoke enveloped the whole area , and after it cleared , I could see six to seven people bleeding profusely . Limbs were broken and for some , the intestines had been ripped out . Soon , they were shifted to hospital , recounted L. Narsing Rao from Vani Leather Shop near the bus-stop . Rakesh , another shopkeeper , said many people had gathered outside a watch repair shop when the blast happened . Most of them fell down . The impact was so powerful that mirrors and glass doors of shops up to the third floor of the Giriji Lokeshnand Complex where the incident happened , were shattered totally . A shop named Dress Code received the maximum impact near the location . Two youngsters Rafi , 24 and Laddu , 26 who sat on the steps of the shop were seriously injured . Viewers inside the Konark theatre rushed out as the floor under their feet shook due to the blast impact . Chaos prevailed at the blast location in LOC_Event . Police forced closure of shops , as rumours were rife about more bombs at other locations . Phones were jammed , and SMSs could not be sent out . Parents frantically calling their wards could not connect immediately , resulting in widespread panic . A pall of gloom descended on V. Kothakota village of Uravakonda mandal in the district as the body of a young victim Anand Kumar ( 24 ) - was brought home on Thursday after the LOC_Event blasts . Anand Kumar , an engineering graduate from Nova College of Engineering hailed from Anantapur district , who by a stroke of bad luck , was killed on Thursday evening in the bomb blast when he stood at a bus stop in LOC_Event waiting to go back after attending software coaching classes at an institute nearby . Anand was a bright student . He had such a bright future ahead . I wish I had not sent him to LOC_Event at all , Veeranna , Anands father said . Speaking to The Hindu , he said that Anand had only recently joined a software coaching centre at LOC_Event and was preparing for competitive exams too . Veeranna who works as a junior assistant with the Irrigation Department in Kurnool district was inconsolable as the last rites were being performed at his native village of V. Kothakota in Uravakonda mandal . The entire village was in attendance to express solidarity with the family as the last rites were being performed . Meanwhile , local political leaders who gathered to pay their respects demanded that the government , besides conducting a thorough and fast investigation into the blasts to bring the culprits to justice , should announce an ex-gratia of Rs .15 lakh for the kin of the deceased . Andhra Pradesh Home Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy on Saturday said she was confident about the police cracking the LOC_Event twin blasts case and said 15 teams had been pressed into service for tracing the culprits . Addressing a media conference after a high level review meeting chaired by Chief Minister N. Kiran Kumar Reddy , she announced a Rs . 10-lakh reward for those who would give information that could help solve the case . She said the government had decided to install closed-circuit ( CC ) cameras within the next six months at about 3,500 locations in the city at an estimated cost of Rs . 450-crore . . The government would make it mandatory to install surveillance cameras in malls , hospitals , cinema halls and other places which attract crowds . On the progress made by the investigators , she said : The Centre and State government are confident of achieving some breakthrough very soon . The Counter Intelligence Force of the State , those from CID and National Investigation Agency are on the job . Ms. Sabitha denied that the police had ignored any bomb threat call . The alleged involvement of Indian Mujahideen in the blasts was also yet to be established , she noted . In all , 16 persons were killed in the ghastly incident so far and 15 bodies were handed over to the family members concerned . Among the injured , condition of five to six persons was critical . Asked about criticism over alleged intelligence failure , she said investigation was under progress and if any laxity was found action would be initiated against those responsible . The Home Minister however added that the State had stepped up searches and checks whenever Centre issued alerts . The vulnerable areas were scanned thoroughly only 15 days ago yet unfortunately the bomb blasts could not be prevented . No arrest so far Meanwhile , the city Police Commissioner , Anurag Sharma told journalists that no one had yet been taken into custody so far and Abdul Wasey , twice-injured in terror attacks , was not a suspect in the case . The city police team has merely recorded his statement and spoken to his family members . Wasey was working in a footwear shop close to the blast spot . Even after six days after the twin explosions snuffed out 16 lives in the citys densely populated LOC_Event , the leads available are taking the investigators nowhere . With no terror group claiming responsibility for the deadly terror strike and the lack of clinching evidence to indicate the involvement of pan-Islamic organisations or right wing terror outfits , forensic data became the soul source to draw inferences . The bomb signature - usage of factory-made ammonium nitrate like supergel and detonation with timers - swung the needle of suspicion towards the banned Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) , which is believed to behind similar blasts earlier . The latest terror attacks in IM account - August , 2012 , in LOC_Event and February , 2011 , in LOC_Event - are akin to those at LOC_Event since improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) were detonated with timers . Compelled by this evidence , agencies probing the incident are racking their brains to identify as to who could have engineered the blasts . But they are not prepared to name the IM as the organisation behind the attacks . Police investigating the LOC_Event twin blasts received a shot in the arm on Wednesday when they stumbled upon the video footage of a purported suspect recorded by surveillance cameras of a noted cloth store . The footage is of high quality , but , unfortunately , the suspects face does not figure in it . Yet police hope it will help them to narrow down the suspects by preparing portrait parley vis -- vis video footages recorded by other cameras . The suspect in the cloth-store cameras video footage was seen for a few minutes , but most of the time his back was towards the camera , a police officer said . Not leaving anything to chance , police had collected video footage captured by different cameras in and around LOC_Event . An analysis of the visuals indicated that the bomb planters came from either the Gaddiannaram side or the lane near the Dilsukhnagar bus depot . These images raise suspicion if the tall man , wearing a pair of white socks and black shoes , who was seen always keeping his right hand in his pants pocket , used a remote control device to detonate the improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) . Our conjecture is a timer was used to explode the IEDs , but the possibility of using the remote control device can not be ruled out , forensic experts remarked . They are sure it is not akin to the TV remote control device , which is made with infra red technology . For this , the line of sight joining the target and the control device is compulsory . Interestingly , chances are there that the radiofrequency signal technology adopted in cars to make remote control operations can be used to trigger a bomb . It can be operated from a distance of even 500 meters if a high-quality transmitter and antennas are used , experts maintained . Interestingly , so far police have not found any trace of evidence confirming that a timer was used for triggering the blasts . Investigators are yet to find traces of any of these to conclusively say that a timer mechanism was used for the detonation of IEDs . When the going gets tough , the tough gets going or so says an old clich . But when the twin blasts rocked LOC_Event and spread waves of shock and panic , undeterred local youth stood ground and formed the first line of rescue operations . Armed with sticks , the youth assisted the police officials in shifting the bodies and injured persons , helped in cordoning off the blast sites and tried to bring the situation under control before additional police forces could be rushed in . The area got engulfed in pitch darkness when the bomb went off . The commotion created by flames and dismembered bodies was such that most of us could not gather our wits to formulate a response , Sadanand , owner of a shop in the neighbourhood recounts . It was the youth from numerous hostels in the vicinities who poured out to extend their help , he adds . The local Police Inspector came to the spot within three minutes and first ambulance rushed to the spot soon after that , but it was few large-hearted people who came forward to douse the flames and plunge into the rescue operations , K. Arun Kishore , another shopkeeper recounts . Once the rescue operations picked up , more people started trickling in , he says , adding that soon it became difficult to control people who started trampling the area . The injured were rushed to the nearest private hospitals and those who received serious injuries were shifted to bigger hospitals like Care , Omni and Yashoda . We received about 30 victims on Thursday , most were treated as out-patients or were sent to other hospitals , Dr. Santosh Kumar from Sai Ram Speciality Hospital says . The injured were brought to the hospital by the neighbourhood youth , he maintains . A major helping hand was also extended by the local political party cadres . Our people swung into action immediately and we mobilised our cadre within minutes , local TDP representative E. Lokendra Nath claims . The situation was similar at the first bomb blast site near 72 number bus-stop . It was initially dark as all bulbs in the area got fused and it was difficult to make out anything , Abdul Kotadiya owner of Dress Code , the store in front of which the bomb went off , says . The glass panes were shattered , bulbs gone , ears ringing with the after effects of the blasts . The scene was macabre and we did not know what to do . But soon youngsters poured in and started helping the injured , he recounts . The Delhi Police have filed a supplementary charge sheet in the Israeli diplomat attack case furnishing details of vehicles used in the blast and over 4,900 mobile-phone calls . One of the suspects The charge sheet in the February 13 , 2012 , bomb attack case filed in the court of Additional Sessions Judge Asha Menon contains the verification report from the Transport department of the vehicles used by Houshang Afshar Irani to recce the LOC_Event and to plant the bomb on the diplomats vehicle . Irani was one of the four suspects named in the main charge sheet filed on August 31 , 2012 , in connection with the incident . The other three suspects are Masod Sedaghatzadeh , Syed Ali Mehdi Sadr and Mohammed Reza Abolghasemi , all Iranian nationals . Journalist Syed Mohammad Kazmi is the only named accused in the case . He is currently on bail . The supplementary charge sheet also contained a sanction to prosecute Kazmi under the Explosive Substances Act . The police told the court that the replies to the Letters Rogatory , executed to Georgia , Malaysia , Thailand , Iran and Israel , were still awaited and would be submitted through another supplementary charge sheet . Tihar Jail authorities were on Friday directed by a Delhi court to produce before it tomorrow the two arrested Indian Mujahideen operatives whose roles are under investigation in connection with the February 21 LOC_Event twin blasts case which claimed 16 lives and left 79 injured . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) has moved an application seeking further custodial interrogation of Syed Maqbool and Imran Khan during which they would be confronted with another alleged IM operative Obaid-Ur-Rehman , who has been brought from Bangalore Central Jail and is presently in NIA 's custody till March 20 in connection with the case . During an in-chamber hearing , District Judge I S Mehta allowed NIA 's plea and issued production warrants against Maqbool and Imran , who are currently lodged in Tihar Jail under judicial custody , the court sources said . Conflicting statements The sources said the NIA told the court that they need to confront both Maqbool and Imran with Obaid-Ur-Rehman as some conflicting statements have been given by them during their separate interrogation . Maqbool and Imran were earlier remanded to NIA 's custody for five days by the court during which they were taken to LOC_Event in connection with the blasts . Rehman was remanded to NIA 's custody on March 13 after the agency had submitted that his custodial interrogation was required to unearth the entire conspiracy which led to the bombings . He was brought from Bangalore jail after the court had issued production warrant against him . Sources had said the NIA had told the court that Rehman was a key IM operative and he may give some vital information against the banned group 's members who were involved in the blasts . The NIA had told the court that Maqbool and Imran had revealed some important facts about the blasts , the sources had said . Maqbool and Imran were lodged in Tihar Jail after their arrest by Delhi Police in the August 2012 LOC_Event blast case . The NIA had told the court that the duo did a recce at LOC_Event 's LOC_Event area where the blasts took place . The court had also issued non-bailable warrants against IM founder Riyaz Bhatkal and nine other operatives of the banned group in connection with the LOC_Event blasts Iqbal Bhatkal , Mohsim Chaudhary , Amir Reza Khan , Shahnawaz Alam , Asadullah Akhtar , Ariz Khan , Mohd Khalid , Mirza Shadaab Beg and Mohd Sajid . According to the sources , the NIA had told the judge that the conspiracy behind the LOC_Event blasts was hatched by the IM modules and the blasts took place on the alleged instructions of Riyaz Bhatkal . A wave of bombings tore through the LOC_Event area on Tuesday , killing 57 people on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the U.S.-led invasion . The symbolism of Tuesdays attacks was strong , coming 10 years to the day that Washington launched the invasion with a shock and awe campaign of airstrikes on March 19 , 2003 before dawn the following day in Iraq . The military action quickly ousted Saddam Hussein but led to years of bloodshed as Sunni and Shia militants battled U.S. forces and each other , leaving nearly 4,500 Americans and more than 100,000 Iraqis killed . Tuesdays apparently coordinated attacks included car bombs and explosives stuck to the underside of vehicles . They targeted government security forces and mainly Shia areas , small restaurants , day labourers and bus stops over a span of more than two hours , according to police and hospital officials . There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blasts , but they bore hallmarks of al-Qaeda in LOC_Event . The terror group , which favours car bombs and coordinated bombings intended to undermine public confidence in the government , has sought to reassert its presence in recent weeks . The violence started at around 8 a.m. Tuesday , when a bomb exploded outside a popular restaurant in LOC_Event neighbourhood , killing four peopleThe deadliest attack was a 10 a.m. car bombing near the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in LOC_Event 's eastern LOC_Event neighbourhood , which killed seven people . Underscoring the political tensions , LOC_Event 's Cabinet also decided on Tuesday to postpone elections in two provinces dominated by the countrys minority Sunnis for up to six months . The memory refuses to fade away . It is over a month , but the pathetic sight of a young girl dying in his arms keeps flashing in his mind . She breathed her last in my arms as I was shifting her into a bus . I felt wretched , said Shaik Jani Pasha , an RTC driver , as he recalled the scenes from the twin blasts at LOC_Event on February 21 . On the dreadful day , when most ran helter-skelter after the bombs went off , Pasha rushed to the site to help the injured . In fact , it was his initiative that saved many lives . As the blast at Anand tiffin centre ripped through the market , motorcycles flew up in the air , and people fell apart . It was like an action scene from an English movie , and soon bodies were strewn all over , he recalled with a shudder . Even before I could react , another blast occurred at the 107 bus stop . Fire and smoke enveloped the site at Anand tiffin centre , and I ran towards the bus stop . People were injured badly and were crying in shock and pain , Mr. Pasha said . It was his weekly off , and he was having tea at the LOC_Event when the blasts occurred . Immediately , he called up Malakpet Police Inspector N. Satyanarayana and later LOC_Event RTC Depot Manager Chiranjeevi . I informed them that I was shifting the injured into buses and sending them to hospital . Time was crucial , recalled the 44-year-old . The sight of two children , aged about two years , crying near their mother moved him . He stopped a Metro Express bus and two ordinary buses heading towards Koti and shifted the injured into them . I made sure that all the injured were shifted immediately , and students from nearby hostels also helped me . Thankfully , police ensured that the buses had a clear passage , he said . Meanwhile , Chiranjeevi pointed out that had he waited for an ambulance instead of using the buses , casualties would have been higher . A resident of Kothapet , Mr. Pasha volunteers in organising services at Sai Baba Temple every Thursday . Just days before the blast , police had instructed all pushcart vendors and others near Venkatdri theatre to shift their operations . This saved many lives as there was not much of pedestrian traffic on the fateful day , he reminisced . Lauding Mr. Pashas initiative , APSRTC Vice-Chairman and MD A.K. Khan on Saturday presented him a cash award of Rs . 25,000 and an appreciation letter . Even before I could react , another blast occurred at 107 bus stop . Fire and smoke enveloped the site at Anand tiffin centre . People were injured badly and were crying in shock and pain . Just days before the blast , police had instructed all pushcart vendors near Venkatdri theatre to shift . This saved many lives as there was not much of pedestrian traffic . On the dreadful day , Pasha rushed to the blast sites to help the injured and shifted them to hospital , saving many lives . The Forensic Science Laboratory ( FSL ) here was flooded with nearly sixty samples supplied by police for analysis from the bomb blasts sites at LOC_Event . The samples weighing 47 kg were handed over by police of Saroornagar , Malakpet and National Investigation Agency , FSL Director O. Narasimha Murthy said . He said aluminium pieces , nails , nuts and bolts and parts of bicycles , which were strapped with bombs , were referred to the lab for examining the chemical composition . The damaged motorcycles that were parked near the sites and the splinters recovered from bodies were also sent to the lab . Mr. Murthy said that the bombs were of high intensity and made of ammonium nitrate . They were concealed in tiffin boxes made of aluminium . The explosive materials were kept in wooden boxes in the earlier explosions at LOC_Event and LOC_Event in 2007 . The wooden boxes also had iron balls . But the aluminium boxes now had bolts and nails to provide the lethal element . Mr. Murthy added that the laboratory did not have the equipment to enhance the quality of the surveillance camera footage , which provided a blurred image of the suspected bomber . The laboratory will place orders for acquiring audio-video authentication and enhancement equipment , automatic speaker identification software and hardware , chassis and engine number examination kit to study vehicles and trinocular microscope with camera attachment . According to the FSL chief , the lab has no equipment to enhance the quality of the surveillance camera footage , which provided a blurred image of the bomber . Delay in the release of ex-gratia amount to the victims of LOC_Event twin bomb blasts is forcing patients to take readmissions at Care Hospital , Nampally . On Saturday and Sunday , close to four patients discharged by the hospital administration , took readmission because they had not received the ex-gratia amount from the revenue authorities . According to the set rules , the government is providing Rs . 50,000 to blast victims who had stayed in the hospitals for less than four days and Rs . 1 lakh for more than five days . At Care Hospitals , Nampally , of the 32 patients admitted , 17 patients are still admitted to the hospital . Sources said that close to four victims and their families , had to be readmitted because they did not get the ex-gratia amount during their discharge . Usually , the revenue department officials issue ex-gratia cheques and take pictures of the patients while they are being released from the hospitals . Similar instances of delay , however , were not reported from Yashoda Hospital , Malakpet . On Sunday , two patients Madhusudhan and Krishnakanth were discharged from Yashoda Hospital , Malakpet , after they received cheques worth Rs . 1 lakh each from the authorities . In all , of the 14 blast victims , so far six patients have been discharged from Yashoda Hospital , Malakpet . The condition of Ravi Kumar continues to remain critical while another victim , Pandu Ranga Reddy , who was in a critical condition , is now responding to treatment , the Yashoda hospital doctors pointed out . The condition of Ravi Kumar continues to remain critical while Pandu Ranga Reddy is responding to treatment . As uneasy calm prevailed after the death of three anti-POSCO project activists in a bomb explosion in LOC_Event village on Saturday . the Jagatsinghpur district administration resumed acquiring land on Sunday for the South Korean majors mega steel plant . The betel vines of three persons were torn down at LOC_Event without any resistance many residents had fled the villages fearing police action and Rs . 10.45 lakh was paid in compensation . We have destroyed three vineyards . Land acquisition will be carried out on a bigger scale in the coming days , Superintendent of Police Satyabrata Bhoi said . The administration said one person was seriously injured in Saturdays explosion . But the Posco Pratirodh Sangram Samiti , which has been spearheading the movement against land acquisition , has urged all parties and rights organisations to carry out an independent investigation , charging the police with spreading a false propaganda over the deaths . The police claim that three persons lost their lives while preparing bombs is rubbish . In the past eight years of our struggle , we have never taken up arms . In fact , bombs were hurled at the three activists , who were in hiding for fear of police action . As heavy police deployment was made prior to the resumption of land acquisition , project supporters got excited and executed the fatal attack , PPSS president Abhaya Sahoo said . Betel vines of three persons destroyed at LOC_Event Blast will not stop us , say protesters Betel vines of three persons destroyed at LOC_Event Blast will not stop us , say protesters . The death toll in Sundays bomb blast in the Shia-dominated LOC_Event area of LOC_Event climbed to 50 with two people dying when the funeral procession of those killed in the explosion was fired upon on Monday evening . Earlier , ambulances ferrying the dead were also targeted . According to eyewitnesses , the funeral procession came under heavy firing from all sides in the LOC_Event area . At least 14 people including Rangers personnel providing security were injured in the firing . The procession was targeted en route elsewhere but faced casualties only in the LOC_Event area . In court Meanwhile , the Supreme Court of Pakistan took suo motu notice of the targeted attack on the Shia community in LOC_Event and posted the case for hearing on Wednesday . Last month , the Court had taken similar notice of the targeted killing of Hazara Shias in LOC_Event where nearly 200 members of the community have been killed this year alone . Sundays blast ripped through two apartment blocks ; rendering several people homeless . Through Sunday night and Monday , people were using every platform available to organise alternate accommodation and basic necessities for those whose homes had been destroyed in the explosion . No organisation has claimed responsibility for the blast in a city that is no stranger to violence . As is invariably the case when tension escalates in LOC_Event , the provincial government banned pillion riding from Monday night and announced an operation against banned organisations . As many as 14 victims of the LOC_Event bomb blasts continue to remain under intensive observation at three corporate hospitals in the city . Meanwhile , doctors maintained that majority of patients were likely to be discharged this week , while some were still under intensive care . Of the 14 patients , eight are at Care Hospitals , Nampally , while four are undergoing treatment at Yashoda Hospitals , Malakpet , and two at Omni Hospitals , Kothapet . A patient named Rama Murthy was discharged from Yashoda Hospitals on Wednesday , while four others , Pandu Ranga Reddy , Rajitha , Shiva Kumar and Srinivas Rao , continue to remain under observation . The condition of two patients , Durga Prasad and Rajendra Reddy , at Omni Hospitals remains stable , and they are likely to be discharged in a day or two . Close to eight patients are still at Care Hospitals , even as some of them are waiting for the governments ex gratia to be released before getting discharged . School 's gesture In a novel gesture , students of All Saints School , Gunfoundary , on Wednesday donated Rs .25,000 to the blast victims who are undergoing treatment at Yashoda Hospitals . They handed over cheques worth Rs .10,000 to Rajitha and Rs .5,000 each to Pandu Ranga Reddy , Shiva Kumar and Rama Murthy . Fourteen victims of the twin bomb blasts continue to remain under intensive medicare . Facial features of one of the suspects who planted the bomb at LOC_Event have now become clear after the quality of video footage obtained from two surveillance cameras in the vicinity were improved upon . The video had initially showed only blurred images . However , the police were yet to establish the identity of the person , DGP V. Dinesh Reddy told reporters on Friday . Mr. Reddy said two persons were spotted in one tape and a single person in the other footage , at the two blast sites . The face of one of the two , who were together , was now clear . It was not known whether the second person was the same as the one who figured in the tape at the other blast site . The DGP said the terrorists used two bicycles with white mudguards to carry the bombs . The surveillance cameras , one hung from a pole at the traffic junction and the other placed in a shop , captured their images . A trooper of 31 Assam Rifles was injured in a bomb blast triggered by militants at LOC_Event village in LOC_Event district of LOC_Event on Sunday . He was on foot patrol with some others . In another incident , a 12-year-old boy was injured when a bomb went off while it was being removed by the police on Highway 39 at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district . A grenade was hurled at the camp of 116 Bn Border Security Force at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district . In a statement , the Revolutionary Peoples Front said its military wing , the Peoples Liberation Army , was behind the bomb attacks . The Imphal West district police arrested Ibomcha Gurumayum ( 52 ) , said to be a member of the Peoples Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak ( Pro group ) , from Kwakeithel Heinou Khongnembi . Eight hand grenades were seized from him . Death and destruction struck in the last quarter-mile of the LOC_Event Marathon . Among the nearly 27,000 runners in the worlds oldest marathon , those making their way towards the final stretch of the 26.2-mile run may have felt nothing but a combination of exhilaration and exhaustion . Yet as they approached the finish line at 2.45 p.m. on Monday the unsuspecting runners were violently hurled to the ground by the force of a powerful shockwave from coordinated twin blasts of shrapnel-spewing bombs . The blasts , which President Barack Obama described as a heinous and cowardly act of terror , left at least three persons dead and more than 176 injured . Speaking in a subdued but determined tone at the White House three hours after the explosions and again on Tuesday morning , Mr. Obama admitted : What we dont yet know , however , is who carried out this attack , or why ; whether it was planned and executed by a terrorist organisation , foreign or domestic , or was the act of a malevolent individual . He further cautioned that people shouldnt jump to conclusions before we have all the facts . He , however , left little doubt that his administration would pursue those responsible for the first major terror attack since 9/11 with vigour . He promised , We will get to the bottom of this Any responsible individuals , any responsible groups will feel the full weight of justice . He took time to praise Bostonians for their generosity towards victims and their families , and to commend first responders and law enforcement agencies . FBI investigation At a press conference on Monday night , the Federal Bureau of Investigation announced that it was taking charge of the bombings probe . On Tuesday morning , The Boston Globe reported that the FBI had raided the Waters Edge apartment complex at 364 Ocean Avenue , fuelling questions about home-grown terror . Victims were being brought in to the Massachusetts General Hospital ( MGH ) , the Tufts Medical Centre , Brigham , and the Womens Hospital and other area hospitals . Seventeen patients were said to be in a critical condition . Among the dead was eight-year-old Martin Richards . The LOC_Event Marathon bombings of Monday afternoon marked the first major terror attack carried out on LOC_Event soil since Al Qaeda struck with devastating force on September 11 , 2001 . With three confirmed dead , among them an eight-year-old boy waiting for his father at the finish line , and local hospitals receiving at least 176 persons , many with serious injuries and some requiring amputation , the city of LOC_Event turned from jubilation to stunned silence . Shortly before 3 pm , a quarter of a mile or so before the finish line , two loud blasts went off within seconds of each other . Spectators and runners knocked over by the force of the blast sat amidst blood and debris on the road . Doctors treating the injured were said to be pulling ball-bearings and shrapnel out of people , suggesting a bomb designed for lethal impact . U.S. law enforcement , which did not appear to have any advance intelligence of the incident , went into fourth gear immediately . Major cities were put on high alert , and a no-fly zone and temporary airport ground stop were imposed in LOC_Event . On Tuesday morning the Federal Bureau of Investigation , now in charge of the criminal investigation into the attack , raided a high-rise apartment in LOC_Event in search of a person of interest . In a statement made a few hours after the attack , President Barack Obama seemed to be conscious of the legacy of suspicion that followed 9/11 , particularly the violent backlash against Muslims , Sikhs and other ethnic minorities . We dont yet have all the answers , he said . We still do not know who did this or why ... People shouldnt jump to conclusions before we have all the facts . Yet even as he spoke there were unconfirmed reports in the media about a Saudi national said to have been questioned at a hospital . Some media outlets got ahead of themselves , speculating over whether foreign or home-grown terror groups could be involved . Yet as of Tuesday , the authorities made it clear they had no concrete leads . After nearly a decade of polarising experience with hate crimes , Islamophobia and the suspension of civil liberties under legislation such as the U.S. Patriot Act , it is only in the past few years that the U.S. has enacted stronger protections for minorities and free speech . There is a real risk that Mondays bombing and Mr. Obama 's promise that the attackers would feel the full weight of justice may lead to the rollback of these hard-fought rights . If they do , it may once again draw the U.S. back into a negative spiral of injurious overreach in foreign policy and domestic policing that will damage the civilisational fabric of America without making the country any more secure . Death and destruction struck in the last quarter-mile of the LOC_Event Marathon . Among the nearly 27,000 runners in the worlds oldest marathon , those making their way towards the final stretch of the 26.2-mile run may have felt nothing but a combination of exhilaration and exhaustion . Yet , as they approached the finish line at 2.45 p.m. on Monday the unsuspecting runners were violently hurled to the ground by the force of a powerful shockwave from coordinated twin blasts of shrapnel-spewing bombs . The blasts , which President Barack Obama described as a heinous and cowardly act of terror , left at least three persons dead and more than 176 injured . Speaking in a subdued but determined tone at the White House , Mr. Obama admitted : What we dont yet know , however , is who carried out this attack , or why ; whether it was planned and executed by a terrorist organisation , foreign or domestic , or was the act of a malevolent individual . He cautioned that people shouldnt jump to conclusions before we have all the facts . At a press conference on Monday night , the Federal Bureau of Investigation announced that it was taking charge of the bombings probe . On Tuesday morning , The Boston Globe reported that the FBI had raided the Waters Edge apartment complex at 364 Ocean Avenue , fuelling questions about home-grown terror . The Election Commission on Wednesday asked the Karnataka government , particularly the police , to be extremely cautious and take all security measures for the May 5 polls to the Legislative Assembly . The direction follows a bomb blast near the BJP office at LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Wednesday in which 14 persons , including eight policemen , were injured . Deputy Election Commissioner Alok Shukla , in-charge of the LOC_Event elections , told The Hindu that according to information received by the Commission , the incident was suspected to be a terror act . Informed sources said if necessary more Central security forces and police forces from other States would be sent to LOC_Event to ensure that elections passed off peacefully . Personal security to star campaigners would be tightened . Meanwhile , BJP president Rajnath Singh , in an interaction with women journalists here , termed the blast unfortunate . This terror act appeared to be the job of some sleeper cells active due to lack of efforts in fighting terror by the Union government . He refused to react to Congress leader Shakeel Ahmed 's contention that the blast would help the BJP in the polls . I dont believe this has been stage-managed by somebody . Terror acts are occurring across the country . It is a ground reality that there are several sleeper modules which are playing their roles in different places . The Central government is not making any effort to destroy these sleeper cells , he said . Fight terror unitedly Congress general secretary Janardan Dwivedi distanced himself from Mr. Ahmed 's tweet on the LOC_Event blast by stating that the party did not view terrorism in terms of political benefit or loss . We all know terrorism is a national issue or problem . Not only that , to some extent it is an international problem . We do not view the problem in terms of political benefit or loss , he told journalists here . The problem of terrorism should be a concern for all the citizens and should be faced unitedly . Whatever I am saying , I am saying on behalf of the party , Mr. Dwivedi said . Mr. Shukla also spoke to LOC_Event Police Commissioner to get details about the blast . We are closely watching the situation in the State , sources in the Commission said . The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday rushed a team of the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) sleuths to probe the LOC_Event blast that took place , even as the Centre alerted all State governments to step up vigil , particularly around sensitive locations . A team of the NIA and a bomb disposal squad of the National Security Guard have reached LOC_Event . We are in constant touch with the Karnataka government and ready to offer any help , which is required , Minister of State for Home R.P.N. Singh told journalists here . Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde , who was in Kolkata to take part in the Eastern Zonal Council meeting , said the NIA would investigate the case . He was in touch with the State government and the police , he told journalists . Advisory to States Meanwhile , the MHA issued an advisory to all States asking them to beef up security and enhance deployment of police personnel , particularly in and around sensitive and crowded locations like places of worship , markets and malls . Sources in the MHA said Indian Mujahideen , which is allegedly responsible for recent blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event , could be behind the LOC_Event blast . Though it is too early to name any organisation , the evidence gathered so far by probe agencies indicates that it could be the handiwork of the Indian Mujahideen . The use of improvised explosive device and ammonium nitrate is what the banned outfit had used in the past as well , the sources said . Less than 48 hours after two lethal bombs went off near the finish line of the LOC_Event Marathon , killing three and injuring more than 170 , federal investigators were said to have identified a suspect after examining a security video shot from a nearby department store . The Associated Press said on Twitter Law enforcement official : Arrest imminent in LOC_Event Marathon bombing , suspect to be brought to court , while CNN news channel reported that after analysing CCTV footage from the Lord & Taylor shop at Boylston Street An arrest has been ... based on two videos showing images of the suspect . However , Boston Police tweeted : Despite reports to the contrary , there has not been an arrest in the Marathon attack . The FBI also said no arrest was made and urged the media to exercise caution . Both AP and CNN quoted an unnamed law enforcement official with CNNs John King saying a second source briefed on the investigation said the suspect placed at least one of the bombs and walked away . Meanwhile , The Boston Globe reported that authorities had an image of a suspect carrying , and possibly dropping , a bag at the second bombing scene , just outside the Forum restaurant . The news of the suspects identification and possible arrest came after authorities revealed on Tuesday that the attacker used pressure cookers packed with metal nails and ball bearings as part of the bomb design . The news also broke after a Chinese consulate here revealed that the third victim of the blasts was a Chinese national . Sixteen people were injured , two of them seriously , in an explosion in a congested locality near the LOC_Event ruling LOC_Event here on Wednesday morning , police said , suspecting a bomb blast . Several vehicles were gutted but there was no damage to the party office in the explosion that was initially believed to be a cylinder blast . The explosion took place around 10.20 a.m. and investigation is on to find out whether it is caused by a bomb as a motorbike was found at the site , LOC_Event Police Commissioner Raghavendra Auradkar told reporters . The BJP office is located in the crowded residential locality of LOC_Event in north LOC_Event , about 8 km from the city centre . The two seriously injured are women , one of whom has a suffered fracture in her leg , doctors at the KC General hospital , about 5 km from the explosion site , told reporters . The others have suffered minor injuries with two of them complaining of loss of hearing , the doctors said . Of the 16 injured , 11 are police personnel and five are civilians , including three women , Home Minister R. Ashoka said at the explosion site . Residents in the area told reporters that the blast shook the windowpanes of several houses . A day after the bomb blast that took place near its office here , the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party trained its guns on the UPA government at the Centre on Thursday by alleging that terrorists and anti-national forces were feeling safe under its regime . Addressing a meting of the BJP election management committee , party national vice-president and Rajya Sabha MP Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi accused the Congress-led UPA of badly managing the countrys security . The first thing that they did after assuming office in 2004 was abolishing The Prevention of Terrorism Act , 2002 , he said and alleged that the country had been witnessing major terror attacks once in every two months after the UPA took over . Replying to queries by media persons , he did not agree with the suggestion that the blasts were an indication of the failure of the BJP administration , especially Home Minister R. Ashok . The BJPs view is that national security is the responsibility of all political parties and all Indians . It is not proper to look at the issue from a political perspective , he said . At the same time , he urged the Election Commission to provide adequate security to the people during the Assembly elections , in the wake of the blast . After the declaration of model code of conduct , the Election Commission will have a major role in issues such as security , he said . Hinting at some headway in Wednesdays LOC_Event blast case , Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde has said investigating agencies have tracked down the owners of the motorcycle on which the bomb was planted just outside the LOC_Event here . However , no one has been arrested so far . The Karnataka police , assisted by their Tamil Nadu counterparts , found that the bike with a Tamil Nadu registration number , had changed hands thrice . The police located all three persons who had used the bike since it was first sold . They were being questioned , Mr. Shinde told journalists here on Thursday . We have not come to any conclusion about the people behind the blast . Investigation is such a matter that we can not say we can do within a definite period of time . But I assure the nation that we will book the culprits , we will book the perpetrators . The Minister said the Centre had been alerting all States for the last two-three months about possible terror attacks , particularly in metro cities . However , no specific alert had been issued to any State about the possibility of a religious place being targeted . Whenever we have any specific information , we immediately share it with the State concerned . The AP High Court on Thursday cancelled the bail granted by a sessions court to two accused Devender Gupta and Lokender Gupta -- in the LOC_Event bomb blasts case of 2007 . The lower court had granted bail to them five months ago . This grant of bail was challenged by the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) in the High Court . The High Court verdict has come as a relief to the NIA , which opposed the bail on the ground that it could hamper the investigations . Nine people were killed and over 60 injured in the powerful bomb blast during Friday prayers on May 18 , 2007 , at the 17th Century mosque . Sharma and Gupta , former members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ( RSS ) , are among six accused arrested by the NIA in the case . Swamy Aseemanand , Bharat Mohanlal Rateshwar alias Bharat Bhai , Tejaram and Rajender Choudhary alias Samundar are the other accused in the judicial custody . Two others -- Sandeep V. Dange and Ramchandra Kalsangra -- are untraceable and on the run . All is not lost for Leesha N.S. and Rakshita Sujai , both victims of the bomb blasts that rocked LOC_Event on April 17 . The Karnataka Examinations Authority ( KEA ) , acting on the request of the two girls , has made arrangments for them to appear for the CET exam in the M.S. Ramaiah Memorial Hospital , where they are recuperating . A press note from the hospital said that a separate room will be designated for the conduct of the examination for the two patients , who are still bedridden and unable to move out of bed . A team led by S.P. Kulkarni , Administrative Officer , KEA , visited the hospital to ensure that all the arrangements are in place , the press release added . Syrian Prime Minister Wael al-Halqi escaped an assassination bid on Monday , surviving a blast that targeted his convoy in LOC_Event , Syrian state television reported . One of his bodyguards was killed in the attack which left a second bodyguard and his driver seriously injured , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights watchdog said . The terrorist explosion in LOC_Event was an attempt to target the prime minister 's convoy and Dr. Wael al-Halqi was unharmed , state television reported . The Observatory reported that a car bomb targeted Halqi 's convoy as it passed through the Mazzeh district of LOC_Event . Director Rami Abdel Rahman told AFP that the bomb appeared to have been detonated from a distance . State television said the explosion happened near a public garden and a school in the neighbourhood , a well-secured district that is home to embassies , government buildings , intelligence facilities and several political figures . I was walking in the street when suddenly there was a very powerful explosion and I saw a car burning and people running , a young man told AFP at the scene . I heard glass shattering , he added , saying he had tried to hide for fear a second explosion would follow . The High Court , on Monday , restrained the National Investigating Agency ( NIA ) and the Ministry of Home Affairs ( MHA ) from sharing any information about the investigation into the bomb blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event . The court also restrained Indian Express , an English daily , from publishing any news items pertaining to the LOC_Event blast investigation , while dealing with a petition filed by Devendra Gupta , one of the accused persons in the blast case . The petitioner submitted that a special court in Hyderabad had permitted the NIA to send some objects to CFSL for analysis and its report was to be submitted to the court . However , he complained , the Chandigarh edition of Indian Express had carried a news item pertaining to CFSL report . The reporter had disclosed that the information was given by the NIA officers and the report made serious allegations linking various terror incidents to one group and the word Hindu terror bomb was used in the report . The petitioner alleged that the NIA and CBI have been systematically planting news items in media to create a vitiated atmosphere which was denying him a fair trial . He also told the court that the special court had informed him that it had not received the CFSL report . Even as a 48-hour bandh , called by Maoists to protest the recent killing of 10 cadres in Jharkhand , ended , the rebels wreaked havoc on various parts of Bihar in the intervening night of Sunday-Monday blowing up a sub-station in LOC_Event district , indulging in arson and taking people hostage , albeit briefly . About 1,000 Maoists blew up part of the sub-station , affecting power supply . One room was blasted . In LOC_Event , Maoists set fire to an Airtel mobile tower in the Kutumba police station area between 11 p.m. and 0000 hours , Monday . A police operation , along with the Central Reserve Police Force , was still going on , Daljeet Singh , SP , told The Hindu . In LOC_Event , 25-30 Maoists attacked the premises of Saaj Infracon , a Patna-based company , and briefly took 10-15 labourers hostage to make good their escape . In the incident that took place in the Sahebganj police station area between 0030 hours and 1.30 a.m , they first set two JCBs -LSB- excavating machine -RSB- and two tractors on fire . They then took the workers who were sleeping there , including tractor drivers , and the JCB to distance of one kilometre , fearing police retaliation . In Gaya , four CRPF personnel were injured while defusing a bomb . About 300 km from a police camp in Sewra , CRPF CoBRA Combat Battalions for Resolute Action teams discovered some bombs , embedded in the road . They almost defused one , but it accidentally went off . One civilian also sustained some pellet injuries , Nayyar Hasnain Khan , Deputy Inspector-General , Gaya , told The Hindu . Our search operations along with the CRPF are on , he said . The injured jawans were brought to the Patna Medical College Hospital . Posco Pratirodh Sangram Samiti leader Abhay Sahu was arrested from near Biju Patnaik Airport here on Saturday . Mr. Sahu was arrested for his alleged involvement in a case relating to the death of three persons in a bomb blast at LOC_Event village in the area earmarked for the proposed Posco steel plant on March 2 . Jagatsinghpur District Superintendent of Police Satyabrata Bhoi said the anti-Posco leader was arrested while he was about to board a flight to Coimbatore . Mr. Sahu was taken to Jagatsinghpur district where he was produced before a court at Kujang and remanded in judicial custody , Mr. Bhoi said . While it was alleged that Mr. Sahu was behind the blast , the Sangram Samiti had claimed that those killed in the explosion were its activists and bombs had been hurled at them by pro-Posco elements . The arrest comes at a time when the Sangram Samiti activists are continuing their agitation against the construction of a boundary wall along the land acquired for the eight-million tonne capacity steel plant in Jagatsinghpur . The Sangram Samiti condemned Mr. Sahu 's arrest . The district administration and police were after him as the movement , instead of withering away under severe repression , had gathered more momentum , the Samiti said . Mr. Sahu has been arrested twice in the past in connection with a series of cases relating to the anti-Posco movement . The Supreme Court on Friday set aside an order of the Orissa High Court which had quashed the State governments recommendation to the Centre for grant of prospecting licence to POSCO for the Khandadhar iron ore reserve . Explosive material used in making firecrackers are said to have caused the explosion in a State Transport bus in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district that left more than a dozen people injured . State Home Minister R. R. Patil , who visited the site of the incident on Sunday , said that there was no reason to suspect any terrorist hand in the blast as preliminary inquiries did not yield any splinters , wires or timer device from the spot of the incident , discounting the possibility of an Improvised Explosive Device in the explosion . The blast is clearly due to the explosive material used in manufacturing firecrackers . Further no traces of RDX or any other high-end explosive material used for making bombs have been found , said Mr. Patil in LOC_Event , even as teams of the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad ( ATS ) rushed to the district . A roadside bomb struck a U.S. convoy in LOC_Event on Tuesday , killing three American troops , while a motorcycle bomb in a crowded village market killed at least three Afghan civilians , said officials . NATO spokesman Col. Thomas Collins said the blast hit the American convoy in the LOC_Event district of LOC_Event , the spiritual heartland of the Taliban and one of the most volatile regions in Afghanistan . The attack follows a truck bombing a day earlier on a NATO outpost in LOC_Event that killed three Georgian soldiers . The special TADA court here has issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against two convicts of the 1993 LOC_Event Bomb blasts case for failing to surrender before the court on Friday . Special judge G.A. Sanap issued the warrants against Zebunnisa Kazi ( 70 ) and Shariff Parkar ( 80 ) . Both had sought permission from the court to appear on a later date citing health reasons . Kazi 's lawyer Farhana Shah argued that she is suffering from a kidney tumour and hence , could not surrender and would do so on Monday . She also informed the court that Parkar had suffered a cardiac arrest and is now admitted in Prince Ali Khan Hospital here . The court , however , issued the warrant against both . Kazi has been sentenced to five years imprisonment by the apex court for her involvement in the blasts , while Parkar has been sentenced to life imprisonment . In April , appeals filed by both to give a months reprieve before going to jail were accepted by the Supreme Court on health grounds . The court , however , did not allow any further time to anyone to surrender on any ground . The Central Crime Branch picked up the 11th suspect in connection with the April 17 LOC_Event bomb blast case , from Madurai prison on Saturday . Shaleen ( 35 ) was picked up by the police along with Kitchen Buhari on April 22 and let off the next day . He was then picked up by the Tamil Nadu police in connection with the attack on a local BJP worker and handed over to the Nesarmani police in LOC_Event town where he was remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Madurai prison . On Saturday , a team of police picked him up to question his role in the blast . Shaleen was brought to Bangalore and produced before the 1st Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate and taken into 14 days custody . The police also produced Kitchen Buhari and Basheer and got four days custody . A bomb disposal squad and a team of ballistics experts visited the Fifth Fast Track Court in LOC_Event town in LOC_Event district on Tuesday night , hours after an explosion took place on the court premises . The teams collected various samples from the site . The court staff were disposing of old records by burning them in front of the judge of the court when the explosion took place around 6 p.m. Two people were injured in the blast . A wave of car bombings tore through mostly Shia Muslim neighbourhoods of the LOC_Event area on Monday afternoon , leaving at least 57 dead . LOC_Event has been hit by a wave of bloodshed that has killed more than 300 people in the past two weeks alone . There was no immediate claim of responsibility but the attacks bore the hallmarks of Al-Qaeda 's Iraqi arm , the Islamic State of Iraq , which frequently uses car bombs and coordinated blasts in an effort to undermine Iraqis confidence in the Shia-led government . The recent wave of bloodshed has raised tensions between the countrys Sunni minority and Shia-led government . The surge in violence has been reminiscent of the sectarian carnage in 2006 and 2007 . Alarmed by a nationwide deterioration in the security situation , Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has ordered a reshuffle in senior military ranks . Fourteen days after the LOC_Event blasts , the ballastic report of the Forensic Sciences Laboratory ( FSL ) has confirmed the use of ammonium nitrate in the bomb . Commissioner of Police Raghavendra Auradkar said : As we had suspected , ammonium nitrate was used in the blast . The FSL analysis confirmed that there were projectiles in the bomb and the parts of the motorcycle have played the role of projectile , he added . Sharing the progress of the investigations , Mr. Auradkar said that the police have interrogated more than 60 people in this connection . But the number of arrests is only four so far , while a massive manhunt for the other suspects and questioning of the suspects is on , the Police Commissioner said . So far the police have not traced the people who came to the city and planted the bomb near the BJP office , Mr. Auradkar said . An election candidate escaped unharmed on Wednesday in a suicide bombing in LOC_Event which left two people wounded , police said , after the latest in a wave of attacks to hit the campaign . The attack came in LOC_Event of LOC_Event , some 400 kilometres northeast of Karachi , when Mohammad Ibrahim Jatoi , a candidate for the May 11 poll , was on the campaign trail . `` A suicide bomber on a motorcycle blew himself up near the car of Mr Jatoi , but he was unharmed , '' local police station chief Zaheer Mahesar told AFP . Only the bomber died in the blast . Jatoi , from the small National People 's Party , was returning from campaigning when the bomber targeted him at a toll collection point , Mahesar said , adding that two passers-by were wounded . `` We have found arms and head of the suicide bomber , '' he said . District police chief Ghulam Azfar confirmed the suicide attack and said that up to six kilos of explosives were used in the device . Violence has spiked in the nuclear-armed country ahead of national elections on May 11 , with at least 61 people killed in attacks on politicians and political parties since April 11 , according to an AFP tally . For a man who has worked all his life as a salesman , Md. . Ameeruddin , 58 , is expected to be patient . The ill-fated turn of events in the last few months , when his youngest son Md. . Rafiuddin , 22 , died in the LOC_Event twin blasts , however , has left him broken , angry and frustrated . Rafiuddin , who worked at Vani Leather Shop at LOC_Event , was killed on the spot in the first bomb blast on February 21 . I am angry because there is no hope of justice for my family , which has lost a breadwinner while the perpetrators of the blast are still scott-free . I am frustrated because I am tired of running from pillar to post for the job that government had promised , he says , sitting in his two-room house at Hafiz Baba Nagar , Chandrayangutta . On Thursday , Ameeruddin 's family was asked to come to the Hyderabad District Collectorate . The officials offered us a sweepers job at the Government ENT Hospital at Koti . I am not sure if I would ask my second son Aleemuddin to become a sweeper for the rest of his life , Ameeruddin says . Hopeful of support , Ameeruddin had stopped going for work after the blasts . He now says that it was wrong on his part to expect sympathy from State government . Why cant they open a separate department or office to look after the needs of families of blast victims ? They simply do not have the humane touch , he complains . Ever since the death of Rafiuddin , Ameeruddin and his elder son Shamsuddin had to face the web of bureaucracy and make numerous visits from Hafiz Baba Nagar to the local Mandal office at Falaknuma as well as several visits to the Hyderabad Collectors office for the compensation and documentation required for a government job . We are tired of strange requests . One day , officials suddenly called and asked us to prove that we lived with our father . So , we had to take our neighbours and a few friends to Hyderabad Collector office to vouch for us . There are several such instances , Shamsuddin recalls . The father laments that he did not provide proper education to his three sons Shamsuddin , Aleemuddin and the deceased Rafiuddin . All of them worked as salespersons in shops . We are a joint family and live on daily wages . Every penny is important . Rafi 's death has impacted our lives and I am not sure when it will all be normal again , he says . I am angry because there is no hope of justice for my family , which has lost a breadwinner while perpetrators of the blast are still scott-free Md. Ameeruddin father of Rafiuddin who was killed in the LOC_Event blasts We are tired of strange requests . Once , officials asked us to prove that we lived with our father . So , we had to take our neighbours and friends to the Collectors office to vouch for us . Md. . Shamsuddin Rafiuddin 's brother More than two months after he was killed in the LOC_Event blasts , Md. . Rafiuddin father Md. . Ameeruddin is trying to cut through the tangle of bureaucratic red tape for the promised government job . Sadhvi Pragya Thakur , one of the accused in the September 29 , 2008 , case of LOC_Event bomb blasts that killed six persons and injured 100 , reportedly sought speedy trial and justice for her as she is already suffering from breast cancer and had a paralytic stroke recently . She conveyed this to social activist Swami Agnivesh when he met her recently at the Bhopal jail in the presence of its deputy superintendent . Swami Agnivesh told The Hindu that Ms. Thakur claimed that she was tortured by adopting third degree methods by the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) . She was ready to cooperate with the investigation agency , he said adding that the cases against her could be handed over to a fast track court considering her ill-health and also on humanitarian consideration . Ms. Thakur was initially arrested by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad police along with Lt. Col. Purohit . A charge sheet was filed against her in 2009 alleging that Lt. Col. Purohit was the main conspirator who provided the explosives and she arranged for persons who planted the explosives . Later , the case was transferred to the NIA . The NIA is also probing Ms. Thakurs role in the Samjhauta Express train blast and some other cases . 1993 LOC_Event blast convict Devinderpal Singh Bhullar 's wife on Tuesday approached the Supreme Court seeking stay on execution of his death sentence till her review plea against its verdict is decided . Khalistan Liberation Force ( KLF ) terrorist Bhullar was convicted and awarded death penalty for triggering a bomb blast in September 1993 , killing nine people and injuring 25 others . Baloch militants on Saturday blasted a 121-year-old building used by Pakistans founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah at LOC_Event and raked it with gunfire , triggering a fire that blazed for four hours , destroying furniture and memorabilia . A policeman was killed in the shooting . Militants of the Balochistan Liberation Army ( BLA ) set off five bombs in the LOC_Event and then fired at the building at 1.15 a.m. . They removed a Pakistani flag and raised the flag of their outfit in its place , Interior Minister Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan said . Five militants were involved in the attack . Television channels , showing footage of the collapsed building , reported that the BLA claimed responsibility for the attack . District police chief Asghar Ali said a bomb disposal squad defused six more bombs , each filled with three kg of explosives . It took longer than expected for the fire to be put out as there were no fire tenders at LOC_Event , a holiday resort , and one had to be summoned from the provincial capital Quetta , which is 120 km away . Security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search . The Residency , built in 1892 , was originally used as the summer residence of the Agent of the British Governor-General . Jinnah spent the last days of his life there as he suffered from tuberculosis . It was later declared a national monument . A wave of car bombs in southern LOC_Event killed 20 people on Sunday as the country grapples with a spike in violence and prolonged political deadlock , sparking fears of all-out sectarian war . In all , seven vehicles rigged with explosives went off in five cities south of LOC_Event during morning rush hour , leaving 56 people wounded in primarily Shiite Muslim areas of LOC_Event . No group immediately claimed responsibility for the attacks , but Sunni militant groups linked to Al-Qaeda frequently target Shiites , whom they regard as apostates , in coordinated attacks . Car bombs went off in LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event , officials said.In LOC_Event , provincial capital of LOC_Event and 160 kilometres south of Baghdad , a car bomb exploded outside a restaurant in an industrial area packed with vehicle repair garages , killing seven people and wounding 15 . Another car bomb in nearby LOC_Event in the town 's main marketplace and near a Shiite mosque killed five and wounded 10 . Twin blasts in the southern port city of LOC_Event , meanwhile , killed five people , including a bomb disposal expert looking to defuse one of the rigged vehicles . Three others were killed in bombings in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . The violence was the latest in a spike in attacks nationwide , with last month registering the highest death toll since 2008 , sparking fears of a return to the all-out sectarian war that blighted Iraq in 2006 and 2007 . A group of three miscreants tried to create havoc at LOC_Event square of LOC_Event area in the city on Saturday morning by hurling a crude bomb and firing in the air . According to locals a group of three youths had reached the spot on a bike and searched for a youth . They also hurled a crude bomb which did not blast . When people of the area tried to nab the miscreants , they fired a round into the air and escaped from the spot . Police officials rushed to the spot . The live crude bomb and cartridge were seized . Twelve persons , including a woman , were injured in a bomb blast at a crowded bus stand in LOC_Event district on Tuesday evening , the police said . A suicide bomber targeting an American military delegation outside a LOC_Event killed 12 people on Monday , including nine schoolchildren who were walking nearby and two international service members , officials said . The attack comes as the Taliban and other militants step up bombings and raids on police posts nationwide in a major test of the ability of Afghan soldiers and police to hold their ground without international military forces , who are withdrawing . General Zelmia Oryakhail , provincial police chief of Paktia province , said the bomber on a motorcycle detonated his explosives in LOC_Event district as American forces passed . He said a local school had just let pupils , who were between 10 and 16 years old , out for the day . The U.S. military delegation had just attended a security briefing at the district administrative office , said district chief Saleh Mohammad Ahsas , who was in the meeting . He said the bomber appeared to have been waiting for the delegation and struck as the Americans left the compound , and the blast killed people walking nearby including the schoolchildren . The U.S. military coalition in Afghanistan confirmed that two of its service members died in the explosion . It did not disclose their nationalities . Officials gave conflicting initial reports on the death toll , but Gen. Oryakhail said late Monday he had accounted for all the bodies many burned beyond recognition and the final count was one policeman and nine dead from the school , along with the two coalition troops . Seven more civilians , including two children , were killed on Monday in the eastern LOC_Event when their vehicle hit a bomb in the road . As the 2014 withdrawal of most international forces looms , insurgents are intensifying their attacks using a broad range of tactics from suicide bombings to improvised bombs that are often accidentally detonated by passing vehicles , killing civilians . Three children , who worked as ragpickers , were injured in a low-intensity blast in LOC_Event district of LOC_Event on Wednesday . The explosive was placed in a small steel tiffin box in a garbage dump . The children Deepak , Shankar and Karan Manjhi aged between eight and 10 years , tried to open it when the bomb went off between 8.15 a.m. and 8.20 a.m. , police said . Deepak and Shankar were rushed to the Patna Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition with head and limb injuries . Karan was admitted to the Sadar hospital in Nawada . Superintendent of Police Manavjit Singh said the children were out of danger and were making good progress . There did not seem to be any terror link so far . Apart from the bomb that went off , two other tiffin box bombs were defused by a bomb squad . Contents of the explosives were sent for forensic examination . Preliminary reports indicated that sulphur , potassium nitrate , diesel and nut and bolts were used in making the bomb . It is an improvised explosive , but low in intensity , Mr. Singh told The Hindu . The children belong to Dalit families . They are ragpickers who eke out a living by selling metal scrap . They are our only eyewitnesses . We still have to record their statements , he said . The LOC_Event blasts case was on Tuesday night handed over to the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) . It had been assisting the Bihar police in the probe . LOC_Event Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had asked the Centre to hand over the probe to the NIA and the security of the historic Buddhist temple complex to paramilitary forces . Soon after 10 bombs went off on Sunday , the Home Ministry had despatched a five-member NIA team including an officer of the DIG rank and two Superintendents of Police along with bomb experts of the National Security Guard and other forensic experts . Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde is scheduled to visit the Mahabodhi temple on Wednesday . He will be accompanied by Union Home Secretary Anil Goswami and other senior officials . He will inspect the blasts site and meet injured people . He is also likely to meet the Chief Minister and hold a security review meeting . ATS teams reach LOC_Event Rahi Gaikwad reports from Patna : The Anti-Terrorism Squads of Delhi , Hyderabad and Maharashtra police have arrived in LOC_Event even as the Bihar Cabinet on Tuesday approved and sanctioned the formation of an ATS for the State . It even notified the posts . It will have 344 personnel . ATS teams have come from these three States to examine the pattern of working of the terror outfit in question . They will be examining the chemical components of the explosives and other recoveries , a police official said . Indian Mujahideen was on the radar of the investigators . With the examination of CCTVs still under way , no concrete leads have been thrown up thus far . We had a similar squad , but now we will have an ATS with multiples wings for intelligence gathering , investigations , forensic analysis and so on . It will a well-equipped and well-trained squad headed by an Inspector General-level officer , Principal Secretary ( Home ) Amir Subhani told The Hindu . The NIA has not released Vinod Mistri , a Gaya resident . There were unconfirmed reports of four persons being detained in Patna for questioning owing to their suspicious movement as seen in CCTV footage . Police officers , however , denied any fresh detentions or arrests . Six suspects , including a woman , have been spotted in CCTV footage by investigators probing the 10 bomb explosions at LOC_Event in LOC_Event , police officials said on Tuesday . We have detected six suspects , including a woman , since their movement close to the temple gate and wall , hours before the blasts , were captured in the CCTV footage , said a police official involved in looking at the footage . According to police officials , the CCTV footage shows three people entered the temple premises through unspecified entry points and two others stood near the gate close to the car they came in . One of them , who is the tallest , carried a bag on his shoulder . A detailed investigation is being carried out into the string of bombings that rocked LOC_Event in LOC_Event , said union Minister Sushilkumar Shinde and added that the probe has been handed over to the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) . A detailed investigation into serial bomb explosions at LOC_Event is going on , Shinde told media persons here after his visit to the temple complex and other places where 10 bombs exploded early on Sunday . We will investigate this incident from all angles possible . We dont want to arrest anyone in a hurry and want to go into details and arrest the main people responsible , he said . Shinde along with Congress chief Sonia Gandhi visited the temple to obtain first-hand information about the terror strike at the 1,500-year-old temple . The LOC_Event is a Unesco World Heritage site . It is where the Buddha , who was born in neighbouring Nepal , attained enlightenment around 2,550 years ago . I also condemn the bomb explosions at the holiest shrine of peace . The Bihar government wrote to the Central government on Tuesday that investigation should be handled by the NIA . We have accepted it and since Tuesday night , NIA has been investigating the case , Shinde said . We have put in a big team of NIA and NSG ( National Security Guards ) which specialises in investigating terrorism incidents , he added . Shinde said that of the 13 bombs placed at the site Sunday morning , 10 went off between 5 a.m. and 6 a.m. . It seems small gas cylinders weighing two to three kg were used , and they contained nails and ball bearings . Initial investigation shows that the bombs were placed in the night and three or four people could be involved , he said . Shinde admitted that intelligence alerts were given about terror threat to the state government before the Sunday blasts . Delhi Police had given information in October . Police DIG ( deputy inspector general of police ) had taken a security review on July 3 and spoken to the local security force here , he said . Regarding Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar 's demand to deploy Central Industrial Security Force ( CISF ) at the temple , Shinde said that the home ministry will discuss it . We will investigate this incident from all angles possibleIt seems small gas cylinders weighing 2 to 3 kg were used We will investigate this incident from all angles possible It seems small gas cylinders weighing 2 to 3 kg were used . Two bombings killed 21 people in LOC_Event on Sunday , just as Britains Prime Minister was in the capital pledging to help to fight extremism . In the deadlier of the two attacks , a car bomb exploded as a convoy of paramilitary troops passed through the outskirts of the northwest city of LOC_Event , killing at least 17 people and wounding dozens of others , police said . Most of the dead and wounded were civilians , though nine paramilitary Frontier Corps troops were hurt , said police official Shafiullah Khan . The blast struck one Frontier Corps vehicle , but the other passed by safely . The explosion damaged many other vehicles and shops , according to local TV video . Frontier Corps vehicles rushed to the scene , and a police officer collected evidence from the crater caused by the bomb . A roadside bomb struck an army convoy and killed four soldiers in the LOC_Event tribal area , the main sanctuary for Taliban and al-Qaeda militants in the country . The blast also wounded 20 soldiers , the officials said . A wave of bombings killed 65 people in LOC_Event on Saturday night , officials said . Twelve car bombs and a roadside bomb hit the city of LOC_Event , while another bomb exploded in LOC_Event to the south of the capital , a police colonel and a medical official said . The blasts also wounded 190 people . At least 19 students were injured when a low-intensity bomb exploded in the classroom of a government-run LOC_Event on the outskirts of LOC_Event on Monday . The blast took place when a teacher of Class IX was taking a roll call in LOC_Event . Of the 58 students present in the class , 19 were taken to the SCB Medical College Hospital . Director-General of Police , V. Dinesh Reddy said that a breakthrough was achieved in identifying the persons behind the twin bomb blasts at LOC_Event in the city , but refused to divulge the details saying lest they ( the accused ) bolt away . The blasts , which occurred on February 21 , claimed 18 lives besides causing injuries to scores of others . Replying to questions at a press conference here on Tuesday , Mr. Dinesh Reddy said : We know the persons who carried them out . We are on the job of apprehending them , he added . He was not reeling out the details and keeping it a closely-guarded secret in a bid to spring a surprise on the accused and apprehend them . Reviewing the functioning of police during the last six months , he said intelligence-based anti-extremist operations had yielded good results and there was a 60 per cent decrease in extremist offences . At a recent conference of Left Wing Extremism-affected States held in Delhi , it was unanimously decided to adopt the Andhra Pradesh model in the entire country . A powerful car bomb rocked a district of the LOC_Event overnight , injuring several members of the security forces , the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on Tuesday . A large explosion apparently caused by an explosive device placed inside a car rocked the district of LOC_Event , the watchdog said . Several members of the security forces were injured in the blast , Observatory director Rami Abdel Rahman said , adding that it was unclear what the explosion had targeted and whether it had caused any fatalities . The rebel brigade Liwa al-Sham claimed responsibility for the blast in a video uploaded to YouTube late yesterday . Two members of the group said its fighters on the ground targeted a group of senior officers responsible for crimes of the Assad regime . Multiple small bomb blasts at one of Buddhism 's holiest sites - the LOC_Event - wounded two monks on Sunday , police said , but the historic temple itself was not damaged . Buddhists from all over the world visit the LOC_Event state , which is believed to house the tree under which the Buddha reached enlightenment in 531 BC . The holy Bodhi tree is safe and there is no damage to it , Bihar police chief Abhayanand told AFP . Eight low-intensity serial blasts took place early this morning , injuring two people , said senior police official S.K. Bharadwaj . Two more bombs were found and defused inside the complex , one of them near the temple 's celebrated 80-feet-tall statue of the Buddha , Bharadwaj told AFP . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh condemned the blasts at the complex , a UNESCO World Heritage Site , saying `` such attacks on religious places will never be tolerated . '' Home secretary Anil Goswami called the blasts `` a terror attack '' but no one has so far claimed responsibility , according to the Press Trust of India . The national government has sent two teams of investigators to probe the blasts , said Goswami , the top interior ministry official . Attacks on Buddhists are rare in LOC_Event but there have been tensions in the wider region recently following clashes between Buddhists and Muslims in Myanmar , Sri Lanka and Bangladesh . Additional security forces have been deployed to guard the temple complex after the blasts , which wounded two monks , a 50-year-old Tibetan and a 30-year-old Myanmar national . Both of them have been taken to hospital , local police official Bharadwaj said . Eyewitness and former local legislator Sarbajeet Kumar said he was on his daily morning walk to the temple when the bombs exploded . `` Suddenly I saw smoke and heard the sound of the blasts . I realised that something bad had happened and ran for shelter , he told local reporters . While the bomb blasts in LOC_Event is first-of-its kind terror attack on a Buddhist temple in LOC_Event , the use of small cylinders , explosives and timers is also a new kind of improvised devices that were used in Sundays blasts . Investigators have also indicated that at least three to four terrorists might be involved in placing the crude bombs in and around the historic temple complex . In their initial report sent to the Union Home Ministry , bomb experts from the National Security Guard have indicated that the small cylinders were packed with a deadly combination of ammonium nitrate , sulphur and potassium . The coordinated low-intensity blasts might have been carried out by using analogue clock timers . This was a new kind of improvised bomb created by terrorists after pressure-cookers , Home Ministry sources said . Each cylinder that was converted into an improvised device might be around 4-5 kg in weight , and to place such bombs in the complex fitted with CCTV cameras would have required a group to carry out the task , they added . Help from insiders Pointing out that these bombs might have been carried in big bags or cartons , sources said probe agencies were also looking at involvement of insiders who might have helped terrorists to take inside the temple complex these bombs by hoodwinking private security guards deployed by the temple management . Referring to security lapse and lack of preparedness on part of the authorities concerned , a senior MHA official said LOC_Event was the target of the terrorists and the Centre had repeatedly alerted the Bihar government , the last one being on July 2 . But the Bihar police failed to come up with a security plan with the temple management to avert the blasts , he added . Meanwhile , the National Investigation Agency has not yet taken over the probe and is still assisting the Bihar police in investigations . The MHA official also said the Union Home Ministry was yet to receive a formal request from the Bihar government for CISF cover for the temple complex . When we receive the request , the Home Ministry will certainly consider it , the official said . Referring the issue of the National Counter Terrorism Centre ( NCTC ) that has been hanging fire due to opposition from non-Congress ruled States , including Bihar , the official hoped that Chief Minister Nitish Kumar might now soften his stand and support the agency that would help fight terrorism in a better way . The delay in setting up of NCTC will continue to hamper the governments anti-terror initiatives , the official said . The cylinders were packed with a combination of ammonium nitrate , sulphur and potassiumKumar might now soften his stand and support NCTC : MHA official The cylinders were packed with a combination of ammonium nitrate , sulphur and potassium Kumar might now soften his stand and support NCTC . Bomb blasts on Thursday rocked LOC_Event and LOC_Event during Independence Day functions injuring one person even as Chief Ministers asked extremists to abjure violence and return to the mainstream . In Srinagar , Chief Minister Omar Abdullah in his Independence Day address advocated resumption of dialogue with Pakistan as well as with the separatists to resolve the political issues of Jammu and Kashmir . The celebrations passed off peacefully in the state with no report of any untoward incident from anywhere in the Valley . In LOC_Event , the anti-talk NDFB ( Sangbijit ) faction triggered serial blasts injuring one person in LOC_Event district where the outfit exploded two grenades while another was triggered in neighbouring LOC_Event district . Bipul Brahma ( 45 ) was injured in one of the explosions in LOC_Event . Another unexploded bomb was recovered from the district and defused . A powerful bomb exploded a few minutes before the celebrations of Independence day in LOC_Event but no casualty was reported . Two Iranian men were sentenced to between 15 years and life on Thursday for alleged involvement in a botched bomb plot last year in LOC_Event that ended with one of them having his legs blown off . The pair , who had denied the charges , were among five Iranians suspected of involvement in blasts that Israel has linked to a 2012 spate of attacks on its diplomats across the world . Saeid Moradi ( 29 , in picture ) , who lost his limbs as he hurled an explosive device at police in the Thai capital , was found guilty on charges including attempted murder and handed a life term by the Bangkok Southern Criminal court . The court found him guilty of carrying explosives in public , using explosives to attempt to kill officials and using explosives which caused the destruction of property . More than a dozen bombings ripped through Shia neighbourhoods in and around LOC_Event on Wednesday , killing 59 people across LOC_Event . More than 600 lives have been claimed this month so far . Residents in one neighbourhood angrily reacted to one blast by chasing down a suspected attacker and killing him before setting his corpse ablaze . The unrest came despite widely publicised security operations targeting militants . The spike in violence since the beginning of the year , with more than 3,700 people killed , has sparked concerns about a return to the brutal sectarian war that plagued LOC_Event in 2006 and 2007 . In a major breakthrough for security agencies in India , Yasin Bhatkal , a key conspirator in several bomb blasts and co-founder of the banned Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) , and another IM operative Asadullah Akhtar alias Haddi , were arrested from the India-Nepal border in Bihar Raxaul town on Thursday . Yasin , originally named Mohammad Ahmed Zarar Siddibappa , is on Indias list of 12 most-wanted terror suspects . He is involved in LOC_Event and blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . He and Asadullah were arrested near Nahar Chowk in Raxaul , East Champaran district , about one km from the international border of Nepal , around 8 a.m. . The Bihar police detained him in Raxaul and the National Investigation Agency made the formal arrest . He was then taken to the district headquarters in Motihari . Police sources told The Hindu that Yasin was planning to carry out blasts during the upcoming festival season of Diwali and Dussehra and had come to India to scout for local support to execute his plan . The duo was meeting in Raxaul with the purpose of planning terror activities . After receiving intelligence inputs , a team of the Bihar police was sent to Raxaul . Another team of the National Investigation Agency also went to the district . The NIA already has a non-bailable warrant against the two , which was issued on July 18 . The NIA will carry out further investigations , Ravinder Kumar , Additional Director-General of Police ( Headquarters ) , said in Patna . Yasin and Asadullah were produced before the chief judicial magistrate in Motihari in East Champaran in the evening . The court issued a three-day transit remand to the NIA to take them to Delhi . The two left for Patna from Motihari , from where they would be flown to Delhi by a special Border Security Force aircraft . Known as a motivator , recruiter and bomb-maker , Yasin was interrogated for several hours at the district headquarters . During his day-long interrogation , Yasin is learnt to have revealed a lot about Pakistans role in several serial blasts in LOC_Event . He has also provided information about the hideouts of other operatives in India and Kathmandu . He did not seem to be worried about the consequences , an officer said . After the alerts , Central security agencies had launched a covert operation along the border days before Thursdays arrest . The alerts were generated by the intelligence wing of the Sashastra Seema Bal ( SSB ) , a specialised force for border areas in Bihar . They were passed on to their Delhi headquarters and then shared with the NIA . An NIA team arrived in Bihar from Delhi and conducted the operation along with the local police and the intelligence wing of the SSB . When he crossed the border , he was apprehended . He was wearing a denim shirt and khaki pants . A lot of homework had gone into this operation . There were manual as well as technical inputs with the local police . Initially , he denied his identity . But based on his photographs and other identification marks , his identity could be confirmed . So he could not deny for long , the Bihar police told The Hindu . Eleven people , including several children , were killed and around 30 injured when a bomb went off outside a football ground in the LOC_Event on Wednesday , police said . The apparent target of the attack was provincial minister Javed Nagori , who escaped unhurt . The bomb was detonated near Mr. Nagoris vehicle as he was leaving after witnessing a match , said a police officer . The blast occurred early Wednesday morning outside the ground in the impoverished and densely populated LOC_Event area , which has a tradition of holding soccer matches in Ramzan . The bomb was planted in a motorcycle . It damaged the Ministers car , police said . Two Pakistan Army officers , including a Major General , and a soldier were killed in a bomb attack , claimed by the Taliban , near LOC_Event in the LOC_Event province on Sunday . The blast occurred while the officers were returning after visiting posts along the LOC_Event Afghanistan border . Amid tight security , the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) produced Indian Mujahideen co-founder Yasin Bhatkals close aide Asadullah Akhtar alias Haddi before a local court here on Thursday in connection with February 21 twin bomb blasts at LOC_Event . The court later remanded him to judicial custody till October 17 . The police asked presspersons to stay out of the court hall during the proceedings . The court has also granted 15-days custody of Akhtar to the NIA . Bombs ripped through outdoor markets in and near LOC_Event on Thursday , killing at least 23 people and wounding dozens , the latest in a deadly wave that has hit LOC_Event in recent months . Three bombs went off simultaneously in the LOC_Event , about 30 km north of the Iraqi capital . Police said the explosions two at the market entrance and one inside the shopping area went off as the place was packed with shoppers , killing 16 people and wounding 41 there . The attack came shortly after a bomb blast hit the LOC_Event market in LOC_Event southern neighbourhood of LOC_Event killing seven . An explosion in a bus carrying employees of the state secretariat of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa ( KPK ) government on Friday afternoon killed at least 19 of them and injured 45 , according to Shiraz Paracha , spokesperson for the KPK Chief Minister . This comes after Sundays LOC_Event church blast that claimed 80 lives . Police said a timer device was used to set off the bomb which could have been placed in a bag in the bus . Mr. Paracha told The Hindu on the phone that the bus was ferrying more than 60 government employees back home when the incident happened , 15 km away from LOC_Event . Egyptian Interior Minister Mohammed Ibrahim survived an assassination attempt when a car bomb on Thursday ripped through his convoy in a LOC_Event street , security officials told AFP . The explosion , the first such attack in LOC_Event in years , took place at around 10:30 am ( 0830 GMT ) near Ibrahim 's home in the LOC_Event area , they said , adding the vehicle was parked in the street . `` The minister survived the assassination attempt , one security official said . Civilians hurt State news agency MENA quoting an interior ministry source reported that an unknown number of civilians were wounded and some shops damaged in the blast . The bombing comes amid a violent crackdown since last month on supporters of ousted Islamist president Mohamed Morsy by interior ministry police . Hundreds of people were killed in LOC_Event 's Rabaa al-Adawiya and Nahda squares on August 14 when police stormed protest camps set up by Morsy 's supporters . Morsy was ousted by the military on July 3 following popular street protests against his one year rule . The bombing comes amid a violent crackdown since last month on supporters of ousted president Mohamed Morsy . On 2 October , an explosion occurred a two-storeyed building in the LOC_Event . According to reports , two suspected militants Shakil Ahmed and Sovan Mandal were killed in the explosion while another Hasan Saheb was injured . Slew of arrests were made in a week 's time . Two women Rajira Bibi and Amina were arrested from the explosion site for resisting police entry and destroying critical evidence . Both women in their early twenties are the widow of suspected militants Shakil Ahmed and Hasan Saheb respectively . Almost a week after the explosion and a few arrests , the West Bengal government has still not slapped any terrorism charges or serious offence charges against those accused in the incident , according to a report in Hindustan Times . The accused have been merely charged with causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means , attempt to murder and destroying evidence among others . The reaction of the West Bengal government or the state police is shocking as the accidental explosion of 2 October could have thwarted a possible serious terrorist strike on LOC_Event . The report added that the serious terrorism charges were not slapped so that the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) is kept at bay from investigating the case . Speaking to HT on condition of anonymity , an NIA official said : None of the Indian Penal Code ( IPC ) provisions that deal with terror and anti-national activities have been evoked But this is just the tip of the iceberg if you start counting the major loopholes in the case . In an earlier Firstpost article , author Sandip Roy notes how the LOC_Event Blast is a bigger issue than it is actually made out to be . Recovered cache of bombs were detonated ( not defused ) by the state police on the orders of the Bengal DGP even before the NIA could reached the blast site . Ved Marwah , former director-general of the elite anti-terror force , NSG , told Telegraph : It 's a criminal offence and the police seniors who gave the order should be prosecuted for criminal conspiracy and destruction of evidence . By blowing up the remaining cache , the Bengal police not only showed stupidity but they also destroyed crucial evidence which could have helped agencies identify the terror outfit . The state police although said detonating cache is the Standard Operating Procedure ( SOP ) . Former director-general of the BSF and Uttar Pradesh police , Prakash Singh , however , told The Telegraph that if Bengal police was following SOP , they should have consulted the Intelligence Bureau whether to defuse or detonate the bombs . Without any potential for danger , there can be no question of detonation . The police can not decide on their own without consulting experts . Going by their unexplained haste , it seems the state police did not want to let the matter go into the public domain , Singh told Telegraph . The lack of NIA 's involvement in the case is also bizarre . In a report in The Hindu , a senior Union home ministry official said that the government is undecided on the agency 's involvement in the case . According to the report , Mamata 's government had not even approached the NIA to probe the case but according to a senior official of NIA that is not a problem . The article noted : The NIA Act of 2008 says that if the Central Government is of the opinion that an offence is required to be investigated under NIA Act , it may suo motu direct the Agency to investigate . So , we do not need a go-ahead from any State Government to investigate the LOC_Event blast under the Act , said the Home Ministry official . The Trinamool government and the West Bengal police 's reaction after the blast came under much of flak as well . The Left Front and the BJP alleged a nexus between the Mamata government and the militants . BJP secretary Siddharth Nath Singh had earlier said : We can safely conclude that West Bengal under Mamata Banerjee 's rule has become a safe haven for anti-national elements and Jihadi activities . Prakash Singh raised questions on the government 's role and how it should have informed the agency which is the pivotal body in handling terror-related cases . NIA director Sharad Kumar confirmed that the West Bengal government had not asked for assistance in the case . As of now , the LOC_Event blast case is shrouded by many mysterious questions which have not been answered . The fact , that the owner of the building which blew up Nurul Hasan Chowdhary was a Trinamool Congress leader - and lived across the street and that the ground floor of the building was used as the TMC party office - can not be ignored . Speculations are many but answers are really few . In yet another major breakthrough , the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) today arrested Amjad Sheikh , alleged to be a key member of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) terror group , in connection with the LOC_Event blast case . Sheikh , alias Kajal , a resident of Birbhum district of West Bengal , is alleged to be the main suspect who used to procure material , meant for making improvised explosive devices , from open market . The NIA said 30-year-old Sheikh was instrumental in procuring chemicals and providing these to other co-conspirators for making Improvised Explosive Devices . This is the second major breakthrough after the arrest of Bangladeshi national Sajid , suspected mastermind of the October 2 blast , by West Bengal police near Kolkata airport on Saturday . Sajid is alleged to be the Chief Commander of JMB . According to official sources , Sheikh was working with a Kolkata-based medical firm which deals with manufacturing of various sterilisation products . He used his employment with the firm for procuring many restricted acids including ` Picric acid ' used for triggering an explosive device . The NIA had announced a cash reward of Rs . five lakh on information leading to Sheikh 's arrest but later enhanced it to Rs . 10 lakh . Soon after the blasts , the NIA had raided his Kolkata house and recovered receipts and vouchers related to purchase of chemicals which were used in making the IEDs . Investigation found that Sheikh was part of the top brass of JMB in India and after October 2 blast , he took shelter in New Delhi on October 8 and from there moved to Basti in Uttar Pradesh where he was provided shelter for a few days by a policeman . Ultimately , he went back to West Bengal from where he was arrested today , NIA said . Sheikh , who is the sixth person arrested in the case , is alleged to be closely associated with top JMB commanders who were running jihadi training modules in two madrassas of West Bengal . The body of the LOC_Event blast accused Abdul Karim was on Wednesday handed over to his family in the presence of NIA officials and local police officers . The body , which was kept in the police morgue at the Burdwan Medical College , was handed over to Karim 's father and his cousin Amirul Hossain after identification , police sources said . Hossain told media present at the hospital that they had identified the blast accused to be Karim from his photos published in the papers . Karim had left his home in Kafirpur village in Kinnahar in neighbouring Birbhum district about two and a half months before the LOC_Event blast on 2 October and had gone off to Kerala . He had not maintained any relations with his family since his departure , Hossain added . The body would be taken to Kafirpur where the last rites would be performed , Hossain said . Apart from the four member NIA team , the Burdwan police station Inspector-in-charge Abdul Gaffar and Sub-Inspector , who was the first Investigating Officer , Akash Munshi was present during the handing over of the body . The body of the other accused , Shakil Gazi alias Shakil Ahmed , who was also killed in the blast is yet to be claimed , police said . It is suspected both had links with banned terror group Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) . A team of Bangladeshi intelligence officials will visit India and talk to investigators including the NIA , regarding the Oct 2 LOC_Event blast in LOC_Event in which terror group Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) is suspected to be involved , a Bangladeshi minister said Thursday . A delegation of seven officials from intelligence and law enforcement agencies will be leaving for New Delhi today ( Thursday ) . They are expected to visit LOC_Event and talk to the investigators including NIA officers , Bangladesh 's Minister of State for Home Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal told IANS over phone from Dhaka . The team comprising high ranking officials of Bangladesh 's Directorate General of Forces Intelligence , the National Security Intelligence and the Detective Branch and other agencies . The blast took place in a house in LOC_Event left two JMB militants dead and another injured . A team of the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) officials recently visited Dhaka and shared information about it for which several people , including Bangladeshi nationals have been arrested . Both India and Bangladesh are committed to fight against terrorism . The delegation will share information with the NIA to help it locate more suspects , said Kamal . Three more suspects have been arrested here in connection with the blast in West Bengal 's LOC_Event , amid a joint India-Bangla operation along the borders to nab over 100 militants of the outlawed Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) . The three are members of JMB . We are suspecting that they have links with bomb-making ( materials ) discovered after the explosions in LOC_Event , a senior official of Dhaka Metropolitan Police ( DMP ) told reporters on Monday . Deputy commissioner Masudur Rahman briefly said three JMB activists have been arrested from the capital last night and the details would be disclosed later at a press briefing here . Another official familiar with the arrest said the three suspected militants were arrested along with some explosives . The arrest came shortly after a Bangladeshi security team returned home after sharing info on the issue with officials in India . Earlier , an National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) from India delegation visited Dhaka . A member of the Bangladesh delegation that returned home yesterday told reporters that law enforcement agencies of the two countries already launched simultaneous drives in their territories to capture over a hundred JMB operatives in line with a decision taken during the NIA team 's Bangladesh visit . The drives are being carried out following the exchange of concrete information between investigators of the two neighbours regarding operatives of the banned outfit in India and Bangladesh , the official told the Daily Star newspaper . He said JMB militants who crossed the border are already on the run as Indian investigators are desperately looking for them after the LOC_Event blast . On October 2 , two suspected JMB operatives were killed and another injured in an explosion at a house in LOC_Event area , bordering Bangladesh . Earlier , Bangladesh police said they had arrested five operatives of JMB including its women front chief and wife of alleged key mastermind of the Bardhaman blast Sajid under an intensified campaign against Islamists . The Enforcement Directorate probing the money laundering aspect in the LOC_Event blast case has unearthed a few suspect bank accounts and would probe whether they were linked to terror funding . We have got a few account numbers of some unidentified persons while probing the money trail in the LOC_Event blast case , an official source told PTI . The source said the agency had obtained the account numbers of the persons whose identities were yet to be ascertained . The agency would probe possible links of these accounts to find whether money was used for terror funding . Early November , the ED had registered a case of money laundering against Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) and several of its recruits in connection with the blast . The case was registered by the agency based on the FIR filed by the National Investigation Agency and the information provided by it . The NIA is probing the terror angle of the blast which took place in October two . The source said that accounts of the accused persons named in the FIR were also being probed to ascertain the money trail . Asked whether the agency had got any clue so far on money raised by Ponzi firms being used for terror funding , the source said no evidence was there as of now . Soon after the NIA took charge of the probe , a team from the terror funding cell of the agency met ED officials to share information . At least nine people were wounded , one critically , in a powerful explosion at a crowded marketplace Monday in LOC_Event town of LOC_Event . A police spokesman said the bomb was concealed in a sack strapped to a bicycle near a busy commercial area in LOC_Event , about 210 km west of Assam 's main city of Guwahati . The area where the explosion took place was crowded . Most of the injured are either morning shoppers or vendors , police official S. Rai told IANS by telephone.The victims were shifted to a local hospital with multiple injuries . Police blamed the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom , a rebel group fighting for an independent Assamese homeland since 1979 , for the blast . LOC_Event has been rocked by a string of explosions in the past two weeks . Two people were killed in an explosion in LOC_Event last week.In the past two months , the ULFA staged at least 24 bomb explosions in LOC_Event and launched a fresh attack on Hindi-speaking migrant workers , killing 10 of them in separate raids during the past 10 days . The ULFA was also blamed for a string of attacks in January in which 80 people were killed , 61 of them Hindi-speaking migrant workers . The central government launched a massive military offensive against the ULFA after the strikes killing 55 rebels and arresting 553 more cadres since January . More than 10,000 people have lost their lives to insurgency in LOC_Event during the past two decades . Two persons were injured when ULFA militants exploded four bombs during Independence Day celebrations in LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts . Police foiled a blast attempt in Sibsagar district . Two persons were injured in suspected United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) bomb blasts in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event and LOC_Event Districts on Wednesday morning . Two persons were injured in suspected United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) bomb blasts in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event and LOC_Event Districts on Wednesday morning . According to officials , two Improvised Explosive Devices ( IEDs ) exploded near LOC_Event in LOC_Event town at 8.23 a.m. , injuring two persons . The parade ground is adjacent to a police reserve and about 150 metres away from the Independence Day celebration venue . . . In another incident , two bombs exploded near a parade ground adjacent to the LOC_Event town in LOC_Event . No one was injured in this blast . . . In LOC_Event , first blast occurred at 8.38 a.m. when first Programmable Time Devise ( PTD ) kept near an electric transformer went off . Second blast took place at around 9.5 a.m. when a flag hosting ceremony was on . LOC_Event : Two bomb blasts by suspected ULFA militants rocked lower LOC_Event on Saturday . The first took place at 8.10 a.m. near a police LOC_Event area . The next went off five minutes later at LOC_Event . Two bomb blasts by United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) rocked lower LOC_Event 's LOC_Event District this morning . There were no casualties reported . . . Two bomb blasts by United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) rocked lower LOC_Event 's LOC_Event District this morning . There were no casualties reported . According to official sources , the first explosion took place at 8:10 a.m. at a police check point at LOC_Event area of LOC_Event town . The next explosive went off five minutes later at LOC_Event . On Friday , two persons were injured in three serial blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts of the state . According to militant outfits , the politico-military conflict between the region and Centre can be resolved only if the core issue of sovereignty and independence is addressed . Bomb was planted on a cycle . Twenty-two persons were injured when a bomb planted on a cycle went off at a crowded place at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on Thursday . The injured have been admitted to the Lower Assam Hospital at Bongaigaon . Suspicion Inspector-General of Police Law and Order Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta told The Hindu that the bomb was suspected to have been planted by the United Liberation Front of Asom ULFA . The recent arrests and surrender of its cadres might have been forced the ULFA to trigger the blast , he claimed . The blast occurred near the circle office at LOC_Event town around 11.05 a.m. when the place was crowded with office and market-goers . Alert . A general alert was sounded throughout the State for past three days against possible strikes by the militant outfits in different places following Delhi blasts . Bomb blasts on Thursday rocked LOC_Event and LOC_Event during Independence Day functions injuring one person even as Chief Ministers asked extremists to abjure violence and return to the mainstream . In Srinagar , Chief Minister Omar Abdullah in his Independence Day address advocated resumption of dialogue with Pakistan as well as with the separatists to resolve the political issues of Jammu and Kashmir . The celebrations passed off peacefully in the state with no report of any untoward incident from anywhere in the Valley . In LOC_Event in LOC_Event , the anti-talk NDFB Sangbijit faction triggered serial blasts injuring one person in LOC_Event district where the outfit exploded two grenades while another was triggered in neighbouring LOC_Event district . Bipul Brahma 45 was injured in one of the explosions in LOC_Event . Another unexploded bomb was recovered from the district and defused . A powerful bomb exploded a few minutes before the celebrations of Independence day in LOC_Event but no casualty was reported . Bomb blasts rocked LOC_Event and LOC_Event during Independence Day functions injuring one person even as Chief Ministers asked extremists to abjure violence and return to the mainstream . In Srinagar , Chief Minister Omar Abdullah in his Independence Day address advocated resumption of dialogue with Pakistan as well as with the separatists to resolve the political issues of Jammu and Kashmir . Jammu and Kashmir is a political problem and can be resolved only through a process of dialogue . We have to start the dialogue process both internally as well as bilaterally ( with Pakistan ) for addressing this issue , he said at the Bakshi Stadium . He said Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and his Pakistan counterpart Nawaz Sharif should take steps for earning each other 's confidence to carry forward the dialogue process between the two countries . Omar also expressed concern over the recent ceasefire violations by Pakistan , saying such incidents were not good for the dialogue process . You violate the ceasefire , our people suffer . We retaliate , your people suffer . Guns can not be a solution , he said . The celebrations passed off peacefully in the state with no report of any untoward incident from anywhere in the Valley . In LOC_Event in LOC_Event , the anti-talk NDFB ( Sangbijit ) faction triggered serial blasts injuring one person in LOC_Event district where the outfit exploded two grenades while another was triggered in neighbouring LOC_Event district . Bipul Brahma ( 45 ) was injured in one of the explosions in LOC_Event . Another unexploded bomb was recovered from the district and defused . A powerful bomb exploded a few minutes before the celebrations of Independence day in LOC_Event but no casualty was reported . The bomb , planted by insurgents , went off at around 8.20 AM at LOC_Event area , about 400 metres from the 1st Manipur rifles parade ground ahead of the I-Day function . The site of the explosion was about one km from the residence of Chief Minister Ibobi Singh , who asked insurgents to give up violence and join the national mainstream by participating in implementation of various development programmes for the welfare of the people . Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modis visit on Sunday , a powerful bomb went off in a paddy field near the police station at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district and camp of 40 Assam Rifles on Saturday , killing Mohammad Wahamuddin , 11 . The police suspect that the bomb had been planted to carry out an ambush . Local people held a meeting shortly after the blast , and alleged that the bomb had been planted by the Assam Rifles troops as a trap for insurgents . The meeting resolved to demand the removal of Assam Rifles troops immediately , failing which they would launch various forms of agitations from Sunday morning . Two security personnel were injured in a bomb blast triggered Wednesday by suspected militants in the LOC_Event , police said . A security alert has been sounded . The two Assam Rifles troopers were on routine patrolling when the blast hit them in the LOC_Event area , a few kilometres from the Manipur Police headquarters . Their condition is stated to be stable , an Assam Rifles official said . A security alert has been sounded and LOC_Event has been cordoned off , LOC_Event district police chief Konsam Jayanta Singh told IANS . He said preliminary reports suggested that the blast could have been triggered by an Improvised Explosive Device . We have found the wreckage of a scooter from the blast site , he said . No arrests had been made so far , he added . Though no rebel group has claimed responsibility for the blasts , Manipur Police and intelligence officials said the blasts were carried out by rebels . On Monday , a youth was killed in a village of Manipur 's Thoubal district after a bomb , suspected to have been planted by militants , went off at his house . There are more than 20 rebel outfits in LOC_Event with demands ranging from secession to greater autonomy . Two Assam Rifles personnel were injured , one of them seriously , in a bomb blast at LOC_Event in the heart of LOC_Event town this morning . Representational image . The bomb , planted in a two-wheeler , exploded at 9 AM at a crowded bus terminal , barely one km away from the police headquarters , official sources said . The Assam Rifles personnel were patrolling the area . The injured have been shifted to a nearby hospital where the condition of one of them was stated to be serious , sources said . Top police officials rushed to the area . Preliminary reports said the blast could have been triggered by an IED and investigations were on . In a powerful explosion in LOC_Event eight people were killed and over 10 injured on Friday . Police sources told ET , Militants exploded powerful bomb LOC_Event area in LOC_Event district of LOC_Event . The bomb was planted in a shop and explosion took place around 7.45 pm . The victims of the blast are believed to be non-Manipuri persons . Sources said no militant outfit has claimed the responsibility fort the blast . There are several militants ' outfits operating in the state . Six persons , including a CRPF jawan , were killed and 50 injured in a bomb blast triggered by the banned ULFA targeting a truck carrying security personnel in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district today . Police said the IED planted by ULFA militants on National Highway 36 went off when the truck carrying the CRPF jawans and a passenger bus were crossing the area . After a brief lull , the ULFA and the Bodo militant outfit , NDFB , carried out a number of attacks in upper and lower LOC_Event on Friday night , killing four persons . A bomb detonated around 9 a.m. by the NDFB militants snapped the rail link between LOC_Event and the rest of the country . Nine wagons of a cement-laden goods train were derailed in the blast between LOC_Event and LOC_Event stations . It is suspected that the militants ' target was a passenger train which had passed that area 15 minutes earlier . Railway officials said here today that the line restoration work had started but might take another 48 hours to restore the link . In another incident , militants fired at an armed police post at nearby LOC_Event and the exchange of fire continued for 20 minutes . None was injured . The ULFA hijacked an Oil India Ltd. staff bus at LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Friday night and drove it to a CISF camp . As a havildar opened the gate , he was shot dead . Another jawan was injured and died later . In the retaliatory fire by the CISF jawans , one militant was killed , while the others escaped . Earlier , they threw a rocket-propelled grenade on an oil tanker which was empty . Later , at LOC_Event in LOC_Event the ULFA attacked a CRPF post . One militant was killed while a civilian driver and two CRPF jawans were injured . Senior civil and police officials met here this afternoon and reviewed the security scenario in view of the stepped up activities of the militants . Rocket attacks on security forces . For the first time in LOC_Event , militants used rockets to attack security forces even as they killed four persons in separate incidents since last night , police said today . Two groups of the banned All-Tripura Tiger Force ( ATTF ) fired rockets at a CRPF camp in LOC_Event and the battalion headquarters of Tripura State Rifles in the same area last night , the police said . The attacks appeared to be planned as the rockets were fired at the same time . No casualty was reported in the rocket attack . The banned National Democratic Front of Boroland ( NDFB ) has blamed the Bodo Liberation Tigers for Fridays rail blast , thereby accusing it of violating the ceasefire with the Centre . Denying its involvement in the explosion on the tracks on the LOC_Event in LOC_Event district , the outfit also questioned the credibility of the administrations intelligence network . It is common knowledge that the area is dominated by the BLT . It is BLTs handiwork but the Kokrajhar administration put the blame on us , NDFB self-styled captain B. Sudem claimed in a press note . The outfits allegation is likely to embarrass the BLT , also a signatory to the new Bodo pact that envisages a new administrative set-up with the creation of the proposed Bodoland Territorial Council . The Centre has pledged to approve the BTC Bill by August if required , by convening a special session of Parliament . Though there was no casualty in the blast triggered during heavy showers , 10 bogies of a goods train were derailed between LOC_Event and LOC_Event . Train services were restored yesterday . The outfit also sought a judicial inquiry into the June 20 encounter deaths in Gossaigaon sub-division . The outfit refuted the armys claim that it had gunned down two of its activists Komal Basumatary and Mohesh Mochahary at LOC_Event under Gossaigaon sub-division on Friday in an encounter and seized arms from them . Sudem alleged that the victims were farmers killed by the Army personnel from Sapkhata while they were working in their field . Eight wagons of an empty goods train derailed between the LOC_Event and LOC_Event stations of the Northeast Frontier Railway ( NFR ) in LOC_Event around 3.35 a.m. today when suspected ULFA militants blasted a bomb on the track . Luckily , there was no casualty . Senior NFR officials at the Maligaon headquarters here said the blast created a crater three feet deep and four feet wide . Police found a 138-metre long wire leading into a nearby tea garden from where the bomb seems to have been detonated . A metal container which is supposed to have contained the explosive charge was found near the blast site . Empty packets of dry food recovered from the tea garden suggest that the militants had bided their time through the night , police said . National Blast in LOC_Event bus kills 7 . Seven passengers were killed and 18 others injured in a bomb blast in a bus in upper LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district this morning . Police suspect the banned United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) , to be behind it . As soon as the bus reached LOC_Event area under Mathurapur police station , a powerful blast ripped apart the bus killing four passengers , including a woman on the spot , and injuring 18 others . While one passenger died at Sonari Civil Hospital , two others died on way to the Assam Medical College Hospital ( AMCH ) in neighbouring Dibrugarh district . Seven of the critically injured passengers were admitted to the AMCH . Police were still trying to ascertain if the blast occurred inside the bus or an explosive device had been planted on the road . A gas cylinder carried by one of the passengers could have added to the intensity to the blast . This was the sixth blast in a fortnight in the upper LOC_Event districts of LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . 16 killed , 40 injured in LOC_Event blast . Sixteen schoolchildren , including nine girls , were killed and 40 injured in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district today , when suspected militants of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) triggered a powerful blast . Police said that the blast triggered by a remote-controlled device took place around 9 a.m. when the children gathered at LOC_Event for the Independence Day parade . All the injured have been admitted to the Dhemaji Civil Hospital and 10 of the critically injured will be shifted to Dibrugarh Civil Hospital . Another blast at LOC_Event in the same district uprooted the main pillar for the flag in the central field near Normal School . There was no casualty in the blast which occurred at 7.55 a.m. There were also reports of a bomb explosion in LOC_Event district this afternoon . The bomb planted in the LOC_Event where Independence Day was being observed this morning went off at 1 . 20 p.m. just behind the VIP enclosure . There were no reports of casualty . The ULFA had called for a boycott of the celebrations , along with five other rebel groups of the northeast region . The outfits had called a general strike beginning on the midnight of August 14 till 5.30 p.m. today . However , the ULFA attack came despite the militant outfit announcing that the general strike would be enforced only in Guwahati in view of the prevailing flood situation . Most barbaric : Gogoi . The Assam Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , condemned the blast and announced that the State would observe August 16 as mourning day in memory of the killed children . He said the incident was most barbaric , inhuman and pathetic . This incident once again laid bare the utter denigration of all human values of the terrorists . He said this is yet another instance of cowardice on the part of the frustrated terrorists . Such a heinous act of violence must be condemned by one and all . Official sources said that the Superintendent of Police and Additional SP of LOC_Event district have been suspended for negligence of duty . The State Government decided to transfer the Deputy Commissioner of the district for security lapse as the intelligence agencies had warned about an attack . On Mr. Gogoi 's orders , the Minister of State for Home , Rockybul Hussain , the DGP , P.V. Sumant , Commissioner North Assam Division , C.K. Sarma , and IGP ( Law and Order ) D.K. Pathak , rushed to LOC_Event this morning . Mr. Gogoi announced an ex-gratia of Rs . 3 lakhs for the victims and Rs . 50,000 for the seriously injured in the blast . The LOC_Event and Lakhimpur unit of the All-Assam Students Union has called a 12-hour bandh in both the districts on August 16 in protest against the blast . Violence erupted in LOC_Event after the killing of the schoolchildren and there were protests against the security lapse . ' Police resorted to blank fire and fired teargas shells to disperse crowds which laid siege to the DC 's office . PTI reports : . Soon after the blast , Mr. Gogoi said the Armed Forces Special Powers Act should stay in disturbed areas . The increasing activities by insurgent groups proved its relevance , he said . He admitted there was a serious security lapse resulting in the killing of the innocent schoolchildren and reiterated that a district-wise contingency action plan was required to combat insurgency . A New Delhi report said the Prime Minister , Manmohan Singh , asserted that perpetrators of the blast would not be spared and the country was determined to eliminate terrorism . He said in a statement that such dastardly acts show the terrorists ' callous disregard for innocent lives . The banned ULFA has owned responsibility for the Independence Day bomb blast in LOC_Event district in LOC_Event in which 13 persons were killed . At least 17 school children , including nine girls , were killed and 40 injured in a bomb explosion at an official Independence Day function in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event town on Sunday . The United Liberation Front of Asom , whichhad given a boycott call for I-day celebrations , is suspected to be behind the attack . The powerful blast took place at around 9:00 am at the entrance of the Dhemaji College when the official I-Day celebration of the district was about to begin killing 16 children on the spot . The injured have been admitted to Dhemaji Civil Hospital , official sources said . One child succumbed to injuries at the Dhemaji Civil Hospital . Agitated , people started pelting stones on police vehicles after the blast and gheraoed them forcing them to launch a lathi charge and fire tear gas . When they failed to bring the situation under control , police fired some shots in the air . Condemning the incident as most inhuman ' LOC_Event Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi suspended the district Superintendent of Police T Thangou for serious dereliction of duty as the incident happened when militants had already called for a boycott and general strike today ' . Inspector General of Police Khagen Sarma said no ministers or VIPs were scheduled to address the I-day function in the college and the militants might have chosen it as a soft target . A probe would be ordered into the security lapse , if any , as vigil had been stepped up in the wake of the ULFA 's boycott and strike call . The Minister of State for Home Ruckbul Hussain and DGP P V Sumant have rushed to LOC_Event to take stock of the situation . Gogoi will visit the area on Monday . Policemen have been deployed in the entire town and additional security pickets have been posted in view of the panic and tension . Two more explosions were reported from the state on Sunday . ULFA militants had planted a bomb in the VIP gallery at an Independence Day function in LOC_Event . Another bomb exploded in LOC_Event area in LOC_Event district . There was no report of any casualty . On Saturday , ULFA had triggered an explosion in LOC_Event district killing one person and injuring 22 others . IN one of the biggest extremist attacks in LOC_Event in recent years , 13 people several of them innocent school children were killed and 40 others were injured in a powerful bomb blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event on August 15 . The 58th Independence Day celebrations thus turned out to be a tragic affair for the state as mostly women and school children were killed in the bomb blast in the LOC_Event where the district administration was celebrating the Independence Day . The bomb planted near the gate of the LOC_Event exploded at 8.55 a m , just five minutes ahead of the scheduled time of hoisting of the National Flag . The blast was so powerful that it caused a huge crate at the spot . The blast occurred at a time when the students and teachers of various schools were passing through the gate . The district administration had directed all schools to bring their students to the ground for the Independence Day celebrations . Most of the school students killed or injured were between 10 and 12 years of age . Some of them were to participate in the march past . The injured have been admitted to the Dhemaji Civil Hospital and four of those critically injured were later flown in an Army helicopter to Dibrugarh and admitted to the Assam Medical College Hospital there . Though no militant outfit has so far claimed responsibility for the blast , it is widely believed that it was the handiwork of the United Liberation Front of Assam ( ULFA ) . The outfit was involved in several acts of violence in different parts of the state in the run-up to the Independence Day celebrations . A bomb was exploded in LOC_Event at around 8 a m on the same day . Fortunately , no one was injured . But the police failed to take adequate preventive measures to protect the lives of the innocent women and children in the state . That the blast at LOC_Event failed to ring the alarm bells in LOC_Event shows the sorry state of police alertness . Meanwhile , the ULFA admitted , in an oblique manner , that the LOC_Event blast was its handiwork . In a statement issued on August 16 , the self-styled chairman of the banned outfit , Arabinda Rajkhowa , stated that the school children of LOC_Event were used as a shield by the Indian occupation force ' and its agents to defy the boycott call of a struggling organisation which has been engaging itself to uphold the popular interest despite military repression . The blast in LOC_Event within a supposedly secure zone was clearly the result of major security lapses on the part of the police and the local administration . The declarations made by officials that all possible security measures had been taken were proved to be false . The fact that the government lost no time in ordering the suspension of the LOC_Event SP and Additional SP , as well as the transfer of the DC , indicates a desperate governmental damage-control and public relations exercise . It is also an admission that those assigned to prevent such incidents from taking place had failed in their duties . On August 17 , the CPI ( M ) organised a protest march in the capital city of Guwahati in protest against the extremist killings at LOC_Event and also against the failure of the state administration in protecting the innocent people . Several hundred party activists and sympathisers assembled at Judges Field and participated in the protest actions . Addressing the protesters , CPI ( M ) leaders Ananta Deka and Deben Bhattacharya exhorted the people to mobilise public opinion with a view to isolating the extremists . Later , the slogan shouting Party workers took out a procesion and paraded through the main streets of the city and converged in the field . Meanwhile , the Assam state committee of the CPI ( M ) has given a call for a 12-hour LOC_Event Bandh beginning from 5 a m on August 18 . The bandh was called in protest against the inhuman , barbaric and heinous action of the extremists who have targeted even small schoolchildren and also against the failure of the state administration in ensuring security to the people . The Party state secretary , Hemen Das , in a press release on August 17 appealed to the people of the state and all democratic forces to make the proposed LOC_Event Bandh ' a success . The All Assam Students Union ( AASU ) has also called for a 12-hour statewide bandh on August 18 to protest against the bomb blast by suspected ULFA militants at LOC_Event on August 15 . The AASU has demanded the resignation of Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi . National Students take to the streets . By Our Special Correspondent . School children in LOC_Event took to the streets throughout the State today to join the widespread protest by intellectuals , artists , senior citizens , students ' organisations and political parties against the killing of 16 school children , in a bomb attack by the banned United Liberation Front of Asom in LOC_Event district on Independence Day . Hundreds of students assembled this morning in the four main public grounds of the city displaying banners with slogans condemning the dastardly attack by the ULFA inscribed on them . The State units of the Students ' Federation of India and the Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) took out separate protest rallies through the main thoroughfares condemning the bomb attack and protesting the Government 's failure to protect the lives of the State 's people . LOC_Event bandh today . The protests came amid the ULFA owning responsibility for the blast and the All-Assam Students ' Union calling for a 12-hour LOC_Event bandh tomorrow to protest the killing . The AASU has demanded the resignation of the Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi . In a separate statement , the State unit of the Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) called for a 12-hour LOC_Event bandh tomorrow in protest against the bomb attack , and to protest the State Government 's failure to protect the lives and property of the general public . It also called for building up a strong public opinion against insurgent violence . The Asom Gana Parishad president , Brindaban Goswami , and other senior AGP leaders who met the bereaved family members said that Tarun Gogoi Government had lost the moral right ' to continue in office for its failure to protect the lives and property of the people despite intelligence agencies forewarning about a possible militants ' attack . Gogoi visits Dhemaji . Earlier , in the day , Mr. Gogoi and the Governor , Lt. Gen. ( retd . ) Ajai Singh , visited Dhemaji today and met the families of the deceased children to express their condolences . Mr. Gogoi also visited Dibrugarh to enquire about the condition of the injured at the Dibrugarh Medical College Hospital . Late in the evening , Mr. Gogoi announced that the Government had decided to set up libraries in the respective schools in memory of the students killed . The Government was also considering the institution of a bravery award for those killed in the blast as they had defied the boycott call given by the ULFA . Besides , August 16 would be observed every year as a day of mourning in the State in memory of the deceased children . The Government today also enhanced the ex-gratia to the next of kin of those killed in the blast from Rs . 3 lakhs to Rs . 5 lakhs and to the injured from Rs . 50,000 to Rs . 1 lakh . Related Stories : COWARDLY ATTACK . Assam today observed a near-total bandh to protest against the killing of school children in a bomb blast by the banned United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) in LOC_Event district on August 15 . There were no reports of any violence , barring a few incidents of stonethrowing . The 12-hour bandh , called separately by the All-Assam Students ' Union and the State unit of the CPI ( M ) , evoked a spontaneous response . The Opposition Asom Gana Parishad also supported the bandh . Life came to a standstill in the Brahmaputra Valley with traders downing their shutters ; education institutions , banks and other financial institutions remained closed . The roads in the city and districts wore a deserted look with public and private vehicles remaining off the road . Although trains and flights were running normally , passengers were stranded at the Lokapriya Gopinath Bardoloi International Airport at Borjhar and Guwahati railway stations as no taxis or other public transport was available . Attendance in Government offices , particularly the State Secretariat at Dispur , was thin . The State-run Assam Transport Corporation did not ply any buses in the city . Students burnt tyres in the Panabazar locality to prevent the movement of vehicles . Police made preventive arrests of about 20 AASU leaders and activists last night and released them this evening . Condemning the ULFA for the attack on the schoolchildren , the AASU held the State Government responsible for their deaths . The student body accused the State Government of failing to protect the lives and property of the people and demanded that the Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , resign owning moral responsibility . National Gogoi sees foreign hand ' behind LOC_Event killings . The LOC_Event Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , today alleged that the banned United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) was playing into the hands of foreign agencies to create terror in the State . Dubbing the rebel group as a band of mercenaries , Mr. Gogoi said the ULFA had been indulging in mass killing out of frustration ' as it had lost its support base . Referring to the killing of schoolchildren in a bomb blast on August 15 in LOC_Event district , he told reporters that while the militant outfit used to go for selective targets earlier , it was now indulging in mass killing at the instance of foreign agencies . ULFA isolated . The widespread public protests throughout the State against the incident had proved that the militant outfit had lost its base among the people and stood isolated . The message should go loud and clear that people would no longer remain silent spectators to the mindless killings perpetrated by the banned outfit . The State Government would also mobilise public opinion against its violent activities , Mr. Gogoi added . Earlier , during a discussion with editors of local dailies this morning , he said the Government had kept the doors open for talks with militant outfits . At the same time , it would not tolerate any attempts by them to disturb peace and retard the process of development . Let good sense dawn upon the militant outfit to honour the wishes and aspirations of the people and to come forward for peaceful solution of the problem through talks . . The killing of innocent children and women at LOC_Event was an indicator of ULFA 's desperate bid to prove its existence . Let the LOC_Event incident be the end to the reign of terror unleashed by ULFA and this should reverberate through the length and breadth of the State , ' Mr. Gogoi said . Strengthen intelligence ' . The editors , while strongly denouncing the Dhemaji incident , urged Mr. Gogoi to gear up the law and order machinery and strengthen the intelligence network to thwart the sinister designs of extremist outfits . They felt that the Government should go ahead in procuring sophisticated equipment to detect IEDs to prevent the loss of life and property . Later in the day , a meeting of senior citizens held here issued a clarion call for building up strong public resistance against extremist violence . AASU protest . The activists of the All-Assam Students Union today burnt effigies of the Chief Minister in different parts of the city to protest against police excess during a 12-hour bandh called by the student body on Wednesday in protest against the LOC_Event killings . Five persons , including a minor girl , were killed and 51 injured in a series of bomb blasts triggered by the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom in different parts of the State since last night . Condemning the attacks , the LOC_Event Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , today accused the militant outfit of declaring a war against the people of the State ' and called for coordinated action by the northeastern States to tackle insurgent violence in the region . Mr. Gogoi underlined the need for adopting a district-specific strategy by police and the administration to thwart the ULFA game-plan ' of targeting civilians and other soft targets . He said the district authorities had been asked to involve people in keeping a strict vigil on the outfit 's activities . Red alert sounded . The State Government has sounded a red alert and asked all district authorities to implement special security measures following a warning by intelligence agencies that the ULFA would resort to more in discriminate bomb attacks in a bid to divert the people 's attention from the LOC_Event blast that claimed 13 lives including school children . The militant outfit today triggered two separate blasts , the first in a bus at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district in which one person was killed and 37 were injured and the other in a bus carrying BSF personnel and their families from Tura to Guwahati railway station . BSF men killed . The second blast took place near a culvert in LOC_Event district in which the driver , Head Constable R.V.S. Yadav , an Assistant Sub-Inspector of BSF , A.R. Khan , and a six-year-old daughter of another BSF constable , were killed . Last night , ULFA militants lobbed a grenade on a cinema hall in LOC_Event district , injuring nine persons . One of them died at the hospital today . Another blast occurred on a railway track in LOC_Event district . There were no reports of any casualty . The incident took place at about 8.15 p.m. between Fakirgram and Chautara railway stations just after a goods train crossed the site . Sixth blast . Seven persons were injured when ULFA militants triggered two more blasts one at LOC_Event and another at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district tonight . Mr. Sharma told The Hindu that seven persons were injured at LOC_Event when suspected ULFA militants lobbed a grenade on a group of people around 7 p.m. An hour later , an explosive suspected to have been planted by the outfit went off at a railway track a few yards away from the LOC_Event here . There was , however , no casualty . In a sudden outburst of violence in the LOC_Event , 45 persons were killed and about 150 injured in a series of bomb blasts and firing by militants in LOC_Event and LOC_Event today . Twentysix persons , including women and children , were killed and over 100 injured in two powerful blasts that rocked the railway station and a nearby market in quick succession in LOC_Event 's commercial town of LOC_Event . Militants strike in LOC_Event . Militants belonging to the banned National Democratic Front of Bodoland ( NDFB ) struck terror in LOC_Event , indulging in indiscriminate shooting at weekly markets and triggering explosions in LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts and in LOC_Event , killing 19 persons and injuring 48 . Giving details of the twin blasts in LOC_Event , police said the first IED explosion occurred at the LOC_Event railway station at 9.30 a.m. killing 12 persons on the spot and injuring 60 . People were waiting for the arrival of the daily passenger train , running between Guwahati and Upper Assam . The platform was crowded with people , including schoolchildren , waiting to board the train to Bokajan in LOC_Event 's Karbi Anglong district , when the explosive planted near the entrance detonated . The blast completely damaged the stationmaster 's office , the reservation and enquiry counters and blew off the roof . Seconds later , another blast rocked the busy LOC_Event area , killing 10 people on the spot and injuring 40 , police said . Four critically wounded people died at the district civil hospital . The police are yet to ascertain whether any militant group of the North-East was behind the twin blasts . In LOC_Event , NDFB militants stormed the LOC_Event weekly market in LOC_Event district at 5.30 p.m. and opened fire killing 11 persons on the spot and seriously injuring four , a top police official , L.R. Bishnoi , said . In a simultaneous attack in the same district , a group of militants fired at a truck going from Guwahati to Bihar and injured three . In another incident at the oil township of LOC_Event , militants hurled grenades , killing three and injuring 10 . Militants hurled grenades killing two motorcyclists and injuring two at LOC_Event . Militants set off a bomb at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on the Indo-Bhutan border at 9.15 a.m. , killing one person on the spot . Another died in hospital , while 16 injured were admitted to a hospital at Dhaligaon . Police station attacked . Three policemen were injured when militants hurled grenades at the police station at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district . One person was killed and another injured when ultras attacked the LOC_Event with grenades , police said . Militants fired at a train injuring 10 people at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district . An NDFB militant was shot dead by security forces in Kokrajhar district last night . The NSCN ( I-M ) condemned the blasts and said such mindless acts of terrorism , which can never achieve anything good for the people , has no place in a civilised society . ULFA rejects ceasefire . The United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) has rejected the ceasefire offer by the Assam Government . The ULFA commander-in-chief , Paresh Barua , called up local newspapers yesterday night from a secret location and rejected the offer . Two simultaneous bomb blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event in LOC_Event left at least 35 persons dead and 100 injured on the birthday of the apostle of non-violence , Mahatma Gandhi , today . Official sources said the explosion , triggered by suspected underground militants around 9.30 am , blew up the ticket counter of the railway station and a portion of the platform . In LOC_Event , a portion of the building was turned into debris . Over 100 persons had been hospitalised so far . Some of the injured were released after first aid . The sources said 14 bodies had been recovered so far from LOC_Event and seven from the LOC_Event building . Police and security forces were clearing the debris to rescue the injured and retrieve bodies . The platform was crowded with people , including school children , waiting to board the train to Bokajan in Assams Karbi Anglong district , when the bomb planted near the entrance detonated . The explosion completely damaged the station masters office , reservation and enquiry counters and blew up the shed of the platform . There were limbs everywhere and the platform was splattered with blood all over , one of the injured said adding people ran helter skelter crying in terror . More or less simultaneously , the second blast occurred at the busy LOC_Event area of the town , killing 10 persons on the spot and injuring 40 , the police said.Four critically wounded persons died at the district civil hospital . All the injured were rushed to the district civil hospital , private nursing homes and army hospitals in and around the town . In Delhi , Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil briefed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh about the situation and would be visiting LOC_Event tomorrow . The police were yet to ascertain whether any militant group of the Northeast was behind the twin blasts for which no one has so far claimed responsibility . With the condition of some injured remaining serious , Superintendent of Police , Janardhan Singh did not rule out the possibility of the death toll going up.He said there was no body trapped in the debris at the station or in the market . Chief Minister Neiphui Rio , who immediately rushed to the commercial town of LOC_Event , announced an exgratia of Rs 1 lakh to the families of each of the dead , Rs 50,000 for the critically injured and Rs 25,000 to the other injured . Rio said the government had also instituted a three-member probe team headed by LOC_Event Commissioner T.N. Mannen and asked it to submit a report within 10 days.The Chief Minister described the blasts as most inhuman and uncivilised act.In 1996 , over 50 persons were killed in an explosion in LOC_Event on the LOC_Event . The Chief Minister described the blasts as the worst terrorist attacks in LOC_Event . The idea is to sabotage and derail the peace process going on in LOC_Event . The scene at local hospitals and the railway station was one of total chaos . I saw human limbs strewn all over the place in the railway station and blood splattered in the platform , T. Zheviho , a tribal student leader in LOC_Event , said . The two NSCN groups , one led by S.S. Khaplang and the other headed by Isak Chishi Swu and Thuingaleng Muivah , have condemned the blasts . We condemn the blasts and strongly believe it to be the handiwork of anti-Naga forces trying to derail the peace process , Kraibo Chawang , spokesman of the NSCN ( IM ) group said . We are close to establishing the group behind the blasts and shall make our stand known shortly . The NSCN ( Khaplang ) group , however , blamed the rival Isak-Muivah faction of masterminding the blasts.Our information says cadres of the Isak-Muivah group have triggered the blasts , NSCN ( K ) leader Seocham Sangtam said.Doctors at the hospital say they were finding it difficult to cope with the situation.Many of the injured have come with multiple wounds in their faces and abdomen , T. Lotha , a doctor in LOC_Event , said.Some of them are in a state of shock and absolute trauma . We are trying our best to cope with the situation although we have never come across this kind of an emergency situation of such a magnitude . More than 25,000 people have lost their lives to insurgency in Nagaland since Indias independence in 1947 . UNI , PTI , IANS . Official sources said the explosion , triggered by suspected underground militants around 9.30 am , blew up the ticket counter of the railway station and a portion of the platform . In Hongkong Market , a portion of the building was turned into debris . Over 100 persons had been hospitalised so far . Some of the injured were released after first aid . The sources said 14 bodies had been recovered so far from Dimapur railway station and seven from the Hongkong Market building . Police and security forces were clearing the debris to rescue the injured and retrieve bodies . The platform was crowded with people , including school children , waiting to board the train to Bokajan in Assams Karbi Anglong district , when the bomb planted near the entrance detonated . The explosion completely damaged the station masters office , reservation and enquiry counters and blew up the shed of the platform . There were limbs everywhere and the platform was splattered with blood all over , one of the injured said adding people ran helter skelter crying in terror . More or less simultaneously , the second blast occurred at the busy Hong Kong Market area of the town , killing 10 persons on the spot and injuring 40 , the police said . Four critically wounded persons died at the district civil hospital . All the injured were rushed to the district civil hospital , private nursing homes and army hospitals in and around the town . In Delhi , Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil briefed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh about the situation and would be visiting Dimapur tomorrow . The police were yet to ascertain whether any militant group of the Northeast was behind the twin blasts for which no one has so far claimed responsibility . With the condition of some injured remaining serious , Superintendent of Police , Janardhan Singh did not rule out the possibility of the death toll going up . He said there was no body trapped in the debris at the station or in the market . Chief Minister Neiphui Rio , who immediately rushed to the commercial town of Nagaland , announced an exgratia of Rs 1 lakh to the families of each of the dead , Rs 50,000 for the critically injured and Rs 25,000 to the other injured . Rio said the government had also instituted a three-member probe team headed by Nagaland Commissioner T.N. Mannen and asked it to submit a report within 10 days . The Chief Minister described the blasts as most inhuman and uncivilised act . In 1996 , over 50 persons were killed in an explosion in Eiphu on the Nagaland-Assam border . The Chief Minister described the blasts as the worst terrorist attacks in Nagaland . The idea is to sabotage and derail the peace process going on in Nagaland . The scene at local hospitals and the railway station was one of total chaos . I saw human limbs strewn all over the place in the railway station and blood splattered in the platform , T. Zheviho , a tribal student leader in Dimapur , said . The two NSCN groups , one led by S.S. Khaplang and the other headed by Isak Chishi Swu and Thuingaleng Muivah , have condemned the blasts . We condemn the blasts and strongly believe it to be the handiwork of anti-Naga forces trying to derail the peace process , Kraibo Chawang , spokesman of the NSCN ( IM ) group said . We are close to establishing the group behind the blasts and shall make our stand known shortly . The NSCN ( Khaplang ) group , however , blamed the rival Isak-Muivah faction of masterminding the blasts . Our information says cadres of the Isak-Muivah group have triggered the blasts , NSCN ( K ) leader Seocham Sangtam said . Doctors at the hospital say they were finding it difficult to cope with the situation . Many of the injured have come with multiple wounds in their faces and abdomen , T. Lotha , a doctor in Dimapur , said . Some of them are in a state of shock and absolute trauma . We are trying our best to cope with the situation although we have never come across this kind of an emergency situation of such a magnitude . More than 25,000 people have lost their lives to insurgency in Nagaland since Indias independence in 1947 . The Centre today condemned as inhuman and dastardly ' the twin bomb blasts at LOC_Event in LOC_Event which claimed 18 lives and assured the state police of all possible help to track down the culprits . Expressing shock over the incident , Home Minister Shivraj Patil told newspersons that he has assured the Nagaland government of all possible help , including intelligence inputs , to track down and bring to book those responsible for the blasts . Patil , who condoled the death of innocent persons , has already briefed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh about the two blasts at the busy LOC_Event and LOC_Event which left 18 dead and 100 others injured . He said the Centre has asked the state to give help and assistance to the injured and the relatives of those who lost their lives in the blasts . Meanwhile , Patil announced that he would be visiting LOC_Event tomorrow to review the situation . Attacks by NDFB militants continued to rock LOC_Event for the second day today with two bomb blasts and a firing incident injuring eight persons even as Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil arrived here to review the security situation . The attacks took place amidst maximum alert in NDFB dominated areas in view of the outfit 's raising day and yesterday 's terror strikes , the toll in which rose to 26 with a CRPF personnel succumbing to injuries . A bomb exploded in a cloth shop at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district this morning injuring five persons . Two persons were seriously injured when militants opened indiscriminate fire in another weekly market at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district , police said . A crude bomb exploded in Nalbari town , where NDFB is active , seriously injured a 12 year-old girl . A CRPF jawan , injured at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district , succumbed to injuries and the condition of his nine colleagues was critical . Director General of Police P V Sumant told that '' maximum alert '' was sounded in the areas where NDFB is active . Additional security forces have been deployed and security along railway tracks intensified following apprehensions that the ultras may target trains . The Union Home Minister reviewed the security situation with Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and other senior officials here . He would later leave for LOC_Event in LOC_Event where twin blasts killed 26 people and injured over 100 yesterday . Some 44 people were killed and 118 wounded in three nearly simultaneous bomb blasts Saturday morning in LOC_Event , LOC_Event 's commercial hub , in what a top official called the worst ever terrorist strike '' in thetiny state 's history . Gunmen in neighbouring LOC_Event state later killed 15 villagers andinjured a dozen more , police said . There were limbs everywhere and blood was splattered all over , said student leader T. Zheviho who was at crowded LOC_Event where one bomb exploded as passengers awaited a train . Two other bombs went off in the LOC_Event , which sells Chinese goods , and an adjacent market . I had a miraculous escape , '' Zheviho told AFP by telephone from LOC_Event , 70 kilometers ( 45 miles ) east of Nagaland capital Kohima . Police said the plastic explosive RDX appeared to have been usedin the railway blast that created a huge crater beside a platform . We found a briefcase with fuse wires ... it contained RDX and atimer-device , '' V. Peseyie , LOC_Event additional police chief , said . Seventeen more people were killed in a wave of attacks in neighbouring LOC_Event , police said . Unidentified attackers raked shoppers with gunfire at amarketplace in LOC_Event village , 290 kilometres ( 180 miles ) west of Assam 's main city of Guwahati , killing 11 and injuring about a dozen , police said . The same gunmen later shot dead four more villagers in a nearby forest , police superintendent L. R. Bishnoi told AFP . Two more people were killed and 10 injured in two blasts in the Assamese district of LOC_Event , 220 kilometres ( 136 miles ) from Guwahati , Bishnoi said . One person was killed and seven wounded in an earlier bomb blast in Assam . Police also reported two other bombings in a village on the outskirts of LOC_Event in which four people were injured . There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the day of bloodshed in the insurgency-infested northeast where some 30 guerrilla groups are battling for greater autonomy or independence . The attacks occurred as India marked the 135th anniversary of the birth of Mahatma Gandhi who waged a campaign of non-violence to free thecountry from British rule . It is distressing such violence broke out on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi , '' Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in the capital New Delhi . Nagaland 's ill-equipped hospitals battled to treat the wounded . Many have multiple face and abdomen wounds . They 're in a state of trauma . We 're trying to cope . We 've never had such a devastating emergency , '' said doctor T. Lotha at a private hospital in LOC_Event treating blast victims . LOC_Event Chief Minister Neibhiu Rio said at least 26 people were killed in the LOC_Event blasts and another 86 were in hospital . The death toll may go up as many are in a very critical condition , '' he said . This is the worst ever terrorist strike in LOC_Event . People are still dealing with the shock -- they 're not yet thinking about who toblame . Mourners crowded churches across LOC_Event , which is mostly Christian , to pray for the victims . The blasts were the second major burst of violence in the northeast since mid-August . Fifteen people , many of them children , were killed in a rebel attack on an Independence Day parade in LOC_Event August 15 for which the United Liberation Front of Asom claimed responsibility . The armed insurgency in Nagaland began soon after much of the local population converted to Christianity . Many militant groups , seeking tosecede from India to form an independent Christian state , are funded and armed by the Southern Baptist Church . Some of the groups such as the National Liberation Front of Tripura have been involved in a campaign of gunpoint conversions '' and ethnic cleansing '' of native non-Christians , which has left over 50,000 dead and many more refugees over the past two decades . At least 27 people were killed and 93 wounded , many critically , in four powerful bomb blasts Saturday in revolt-racked LOC_Event , police said . Three blasts occurred in LOC_Event , the commercial hub of LOC_Event , killing 21 people in what the states chief minister called the worst ever terrorist strike '' in the tiny states history . There were limbs everywhere and blood was splattered all over , '' said student leader T. Zheviho who was at a crowded LOC_Event where one bomb exploded as passengers awaited a train . Two other bombs blew up in markets . I had a miraculous escape , '' Zheviho told AFP by telephone from LOC_Event , 70 kilometers ( 45 miles ) east of Nagaland capital Kohima . Police said the plastic explosive RDX appeared to have been used in the railway blast and were probing the nature of the market bombs . We found a briefcase at the LOC_Event with fuse wires . First findings show it contained RDX and a timer-device , V. Peseyie , LOC_Event additional police chief , said . There were no immediate claims of responsibility for the explosions in the revolt-infested northeast where some 30 guerrilla groups are battling for greater autonomy or independence . A bomb also exploded in neighbouring LOC_Event , killing one person and injuring seven but police said the attacks did not seem to be linked . The blasts occurred as India marked the 135th anniversary of the birth of Mahatma Gandhi who led the successful drive to win independence from British colonial rule in 1947 . Nagalands ill-equipped hospitals battled to treat the wounded . Many have multiple face and abdomen wounds . Theyre in a state of trauma . Were trying to cope . Weve never had such a devastating emergency , said doctor T. Lotha at a private hospital in Dimapur treating blast victims . Nagaland Chief Minister Neibhiu Rio said the death toll from the bombs totalled at least 26 and another 86 were in hospital . The death toll may go up as many are in a very critical condition , '' he said . This is the worst ever terrorist strike in LOC_Event . People are still dealing with the shock theyre not yet thinking about who to blame . The bomb attacks shattered the relative calm of the mainly farming state of two million where a truce has been in effect with Nagalands largest separatist group , the National Socialist Council of Nagaland ( NSCN ) , in 1997 . New Delhi and the NSCN have been holding talks aimed ending nearly six decades of insurgency in the state . Two rival factions of the NSCN denied involvement in the attack . In the blast in western Assam , one man died and seven were wounded , '' a police official told AFP . It was the second major burst of violence in two-and-a-half months in the northeast where some 30 guerrilla groups are battling for greater autonomy or independence . Fifteen were killed , many of them children , in a rebel attack on an Independence Day parade in Assam August 15 for which the United Liberation Front of Asom claimed responsibility . More than 50,000 people have died in Indias northeast since independence in fighting between security forces and rebel groups , who say their cultures and the regions resources are under threat from outsiders . The President , A.P.J. Abdul Kalam , has condoled the loss of lives in a series of bomb blasts and militant attacks at LOC_Event in LOC_Event and in LOC_Event yesterday . In separate condolence messages to the LOC_Event Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , and the LOC_Event Chief Minister , Neiphiu Rio , Mr. Kalam said that the acts of violence are to be condemned and are reprehensible acts of people who do not value innocent human lives , even those of women and children . I fervently hope that permanent peace will return to the State soon . I am sure the State Governments have made all arrangements to treat the injured and provide succour to the families of those who have lost their loved ones , ' he said . Strategy sought . The Communist Party of India , the Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) and the Bharatiya Janata Party have condemned the blasts and called upon the Centre , the State Governments and the authorities to work out a strategy to counter such incidents . In a statement here today , the CPI ( M ) Polit Bureau said that the Central Government should immediately convene meetings with the State Governments and other authorities in the North-East to work out a strategy . Expressing shock and condemning the LOC_Event blasts , the CPI ( M ) said that the premeditated manner ' in which the bombs were placed at the railway station and the market showed the aim of the attacks is to disrupt peaceful atmosphere in the State . ' On the attacks in LOC_Event , they said , All attempts to foment ethnic conflicts through such violent attacks have no support from the common people . The growing trend of extremist groups resorting to indiscriminate violence in LOC_Event must be countered by firm action and popular mobilisation to isolate them . Talk to State Governments . The CPI urged the Home Minister , Shivraj Patil , now visiting Assam and Nagaland , to talk to the State Governments and other authorities and evolve a strategy to counter the insurgency and prevent further deterioration of the situation . It is also necessary to take fresh political initiatives to restore normality and tranquillity in the entire North-East region , the party said . Condemning the incidents , the BJP Parliamentary Party spokesman , Vijay Kumar Malhotra , said : It appears that the Government does not seem to be very sensitive towards the internal security issues . Beginning with LOC_Event and now LOC_Event and LOC_Event , the whole of North-East seems to be burning . . PTI and UNI report from Guwahati : . The BJP in Assam today said that yesterday was a black day ' for the State and alleged that the Congress Government in the State had lost the moral right to continue . The day was a black day for the State when many innocent lives were lost and the Government just remained a mute spectator , ' a spokesman for the party 's State unit , Dhruba Baishya , said . He alleged that the State Government was directionless ' and had no policies to deal with militancy . The All-Bodo Students Union ( ABSU ) has called for a 12-hour Assam bandh tomorrow to protest against the killing of innocent people . Several other organisations have also condemned the killings and extended support to tomorrow 's bandh . Front Page 12 killed as blasts rock LOC_Event for second day . By Sushanta Talukdar and agencies . Twelve persons were killed and 58 injured in incidents of violence that rocked LOC_Event for the second day today . The Inspector General of Police ( Special Branch ) , Khagen Sharma , said that suspected militants of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland ( NDFB ) triggered a powerful blast at a weekly market in LOC_Event in LOC_Event district . Thirty-seven persons were injured , some of them seriously . One of the injured died on the way to hospital . Three persons were killed and 10 injured in a blast in the busy LOC_Event in LOC_Event district , police said . Unofficial sources , however , claimed that five persons were killed . In another blast at a LOC_Event district , one person died and eight were injured . NDFB militants triggered a blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district , in which one person was killed and two were injured . Two NDFB men were killed at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district when a bomb they were carrying went off . Militants shot at a minor girl in the LOC_Event district of LOC_Event . Army vehicle targeted . In attacks suspected to have been carried out by the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) , four army men were killed and their vehicle was damaged in a powerful blast in Upper LOC_Event district . Two other blasts damaged an oil pipeline at LOC_Event district . The extent of damage to the Oil India Limited 's natural gas pipeline was unknown . Another bomb exploded at a shop in LOC_Event , wounding its owner , the District Magistrate , A.K. Bhutani , said . And in the nearby town of Chitra , suspected militants blew up an electrical transmission tower , snapping power supply to the area , he added . A militant was killed when the bomb he was carrying exploded at LOC_Event under LOC_Event in LOC_Event district . ULFA militants exploded a bomb at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district , in which a tea garden labourer was killed on the spot and two were seriously injured . The district police also recovered 6 kg RDX from militants and took 10 persons into custody . The violence spread to more districts today , affecting Dhubri , Bongaigaon , Kokrajhar , Darrang , Morigaon , Chirang , Udalguri , Sonitpur , Sibsagar , Karbi Anglong , Kamrup and Nalbari . Joint attacks ' . Mr. Sharma said that the NDFB , which is demanding the creation of a sovereign Boroland , ' had carried out attacks on soft targets in a desperate bid to draw attention on its 18th raising day . The attacks had been carried out jointly by the NDFB and the ULFA . The Director General of Police , P.V. Sumant , said the groups were coordinating their operations to strike simultaneously . The LOC_Event Police has information that they ( the NDFB and the ULFA ) do work together as seen in yesterday 's serial blasts and firings by militants across the State . We had discussions with the Union Home Minister as to how to coordinate the security operations against the outfits as they are functioning in unison , ' Mr. Sumant added . Alert sounded . Officials said maximum alert ' had been sounded in the areas where the NDFB was active . Additional security forces had been deployed and security along railway tracks intensified following apprehensions that the militants could target trains . The U.S. Ambassador to India , David C. Mulford , today offered to provide technical expertise to the Assam Government in investigating bomb attacks by militants . He had made the same offer yesterday to the Union Home Minister , Shivraj Patil . In his letter dated October 4 , faxed by the U.S. Embassy this morning , Mr. Mulford wrote to LOC_Event Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , that the Federal Bureau of Investigation FBI would be pleased to provide technical support in the investigation . In this context , the United States has considerable expertise in investigative techniques including , for example , such areas as forensic analysis of explosive residues . Should you find it helpful , the FBI would be pleased to provide technical support for your investigation . I have also made this offer to Home Minister Shivraj Patil . I hope you will feel free to contact me if there is any other way that we can be helpful , ' the letter said . A copy of the letter was made available to reporters during a press conference addressed by Mr. Gogoi here this morning . The Chief Minister said he was willing to take the help of the FBI , provided the Centre agreed to it . I am for it ( taking help of the FBI ) . I will take it up with the Government of India , Mr. Gogoi said . He , however , said that it ( taking help from FBI ) can not be at the cost of national security . Offering his ` sincere condolences ' in the wake of the terrorist attacks ' in LOC_Event over the weekend of October 2-3 , the U.S. Ambassador wished Mr. Gogoi all success in apprehending the terrorists who have carried out these senseless attacks and in restoring peace and tranquillity to LOC_Event . Mr. Gogoi said that 30 people were killed and 190 injured in serial blasts and incidents of indiscriminate firing by the outlawed National Democratic Front of Bodoland ( NDFB ) and United Liberation Front of Asom ULFA since October 2 . Describing the situation as very disturbing , ' Mr. Gogoi said the State Government had vowed to carry on with the development activities despite the sabotage bid by militants . He , however , said that neither the Assam Government nor other States in the region could afford to be complacent as a bigger force inimical to the country had been trying to disrupt the whole of North-east . ' Mr. Gogoi said the State Government had decided to recruit 16,000 home guards and 6,000 Assam Police personnel and form 11,000 more groups of Village Defence Party VDP . It would also raise two more India Reserve Battalions to counter the militants ' new strategy of attacking soft targets . He also said vigilance committees at the village level and market level would be constituted to ensure a strict vigil by public along with the security forces . Frivolous charges ' Mr. Gogoi described as frivolous and baseless ' the former Deputy Prime Minister , L.K. Advani 's allegation that the Congress had nexus with the ULFA . It was he ( Gogoi ) who had insisted on demolition of militants ' camps in Bhutan as well as in Bangladesh and Myanmar . Instead of responding to the Governments ' appeal for unconditional talks , the militants had stepped up violence . Asked to comment on a statement by the NDFB asking its cadre to prepare for talks , the Chief Minister said that the State Government would first have to confirm the genuineness of the statement published in a section of the media . He , however , reiterated that door was always open for unconditional talks . Appreciating the concern and sympathy expressed by the United States Ambassador , David C. Mulford , over the loss of lives in the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event , the Union Home Minister , Shivraj Patil , today refrained from commenting on his offer of providing FBI expertise to the Assam Government in probing the attacks . This is a gesture of extending help and sympathy by the U.S. Ambassador at a difficult time and it should be seen in that light only . The feelings expressed in the letter should be seen the way they have been expressed rather than turning the entire issue into a complex affair . I will not comment on the offer of Federal Bureau of Investigation help in investigating the bomb blasts as it falls in the domain of the Ministry of External Affairs , which is competent to comment on it , ' Mr. Patil told reporters during a briefing on the North-East situation . He refused to get drawn into further queries on Mr. Mulford 's offer of FBI help made directly to the Assam Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi . We have the expertise . Earlier , the Special Secretary ( Home ) , Anil Chaudhary , faced a volley of questions on the U.S. offer . He summed up the response thus : Thank you very much for the offer , but we have the expertise for dealing with such incidents . India 's capabilities in investigating terrorist blasts are fairly good , ' Mr. Chaudhary said . It had joint working groups with 21 countries for cooperation in dealing with counter-terrorism and cross-border terrorism and there were various levels ' of cooperation . Highly-placed sources in the Central Bureau of Investigation ( CBI ) and the security establishment said that Mr. Mulford 's offer should have been routed through the proper channel . The whole matter is raised suo motu by the U.S. Ambassador in New Delhi in a most presumptuous manner . This is a direct concern of law and order which happens to be a State subject and , to some extent , the matter of internal security is also the subject of the Centre . Senior CBI officials said the FBI had offered help in the investigation of the IC-814 Indian Airlines hijacking case , in tracking down Sikh militants and in applying pressure in the Abu Salem case . The FBI help came in handy in the LOC_Event killings in January 2002 when the main accused , Aftab Ansari , was swiftly deported from the UAE but these are instances of agency-to-agency cooperation and in most of the cases the U.S. interest was quite high , ' sources said . The correct procedure would have been routing the offer through the Department of State or the Department of Justice to the Indian Government . If in the name of a crackdown on the Al-Qaeda , the U.S. can do it in Pakistan , it should not think that it can do the same in India , ' the sources in the security establishment said . CBI can do it ' . . A former CBI Director pointed out that investigation of the 1993 Bombay serial blasts was handled by the CBI without anybody 's help . We are not casting aspersions on the FBI 's capability but the CBI has cooperated with the FBI in cyber crime cases , other high-tech crimes and even offered training facilities to its experts in tracking down cyber crime cases . Though the cooperation from the FBI has been good , it has not even provided the transcripts of the interrogation of Afghan suspects in the IC-814 hijacking case . There is no need to become enthusiastic about the whole matter . It was pointed out that the CBI had put its foot down and insisted upon the route of a proper channel ' when the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State , Christina Rocca , wanted to pay a visit to its headquarters two years ago . The visit did take place but after getting clearance from the Ministries of External Affairs and Home . Her request of a presentation on the IC-814 hijack case was also met only then . Sources in the security set-up said the U.S. offer should have come for sharing intelligence on the Inter-Services Intelligence , which has a strong foothold in Bangladesh and is suspected of funding terror activities . The U.S. move could also be an attempt to gain a foothold in the sensitive North-East region , which is the gateway to South-East Asia and borders Myanmar and China , sources felt . The Asom Gana Parishad ( AGP ) today forwarded ' a confessional statement ' of a woman cadre of the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) , arrested in connection with the LOC_Event bomb blast , to the President , A.P.J. Abdul Kalam , urging him to initiate an impartial commission of enquiry into the alleged link ' of an Assam Minister with the banned outfit . The AGP general secretary , Dilip Kumar Saikia , today distributed at a press conference copies of the confessional statement ' of the ULFA cadre , purportedly made during her interrogation by police . Damaging allegations . . According to the confessional statement , ' the Minister allegedly gifted a mobile handset to another ULFA cadre , also a suspect in the LOC_Event bomb blast triggered by the ULFA on this year 's Independence Day . Thirteen persons , mostly school children , were killed in it . The statement also claimed that the suspect had frequent discussions with the Minister over the mobile phone . Violence rocked LOC_Event and LOC_Event on Republic Day as militants triggered blasts at the LOC_Event here injuring two Government employees and seven at LOC_Event in LOC_Event . A sub-inspector and a Government employee were injured when two programmed time delay devices went off at Judges Field , venue of the ceremonial parade at LOC_Event . The first one went off at 8.47 a.m. in a drain and the other at 9.05 a.m. The first blast occurred minutes after the LOC_Event Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , arrived at the LOC_Event and the second when the Governor , Lt. Gen. ( retd . ) Ajai Singh , was getting ready for inspecting the guard of honour . Two persons were injured when a bomb , suspected to have been planted by the ULFA , went off near the LOC_Event around 7.10 p.m. . Yet another blast occurred at LOC_Event town . The LOC_Event Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , has ordered an Additional Director-General of Police-level probe into the two blasts today during the Republic Day Parade . Appropriate action will be taken against whoever is found guilty for the security lapse , ' he told reporters . Mr. Gogoi said that people remained calm despite the blasts at the parade venue , which was a very a good sign and would foil attempts by the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) to create terror among the people by resorting to violence . Detection difficult ' . . The City Superintendent of Police , H.C. Nath , said that such explosives could not be detected with gadgets such as deep search metal detectors as militants used carbon and plastic materials . Call to militants . . In his ceremonial address , which began a few seconds after the second blast , the Governor , Lt. Gen. ( retd . ) Ajai Singh , said that the law and order situation had improved and that insurgents had in desperation resorted to sporadic attacks on soft targets . He , however , said that the State Government had kept the door open for negotiations and that it was keen on beginning peace talks with ULFA . He called upon the militant outfit to reciprocate the gesture . 7 injured in LOC_Event . . In LOC_Event , seven persons , including two security personnel , were injured when militants set off two bombs at LOC_Event in the Imphal East district . The condition of the five civilians was stated to be serious . In the backdrop of the bomb explosions at the Republic Day function here , the opposition AGP and BJP in Assam today separately demanded immediate resignation of Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi for his alleged failure to control the law and order situation in the state . The Asom Gana Parishad ( AGP ) lambasted the Gogoi-led Congress government for its alleged failure to protect the lives of common people in the aftermath of the ULFA-sponsored bomb blasts in the state . Today 's incident in the main Republic Day function where the Governor and Chief Minister were present and last year 's blast on Independence Day at LOC_Event reflected total failure of the government and their machinery ' , alleged AGP president Brindabon Goswami . Speaking to journalists at the R-Day parade ground where the ULFA blasted two bombs injuring three , including a police personnel , an agitated Goswami said , to demand Gogoi 's resignation is an understatement as it is for the people to decide whether he is really fit to head the government ' . The ULFA have proved that the hollow claims of the government about tightened security was just a publicity stunt as the ULFA engages in violence at will , he asserted . It is high time that he ( Gogoi ) should accept the moral responsibility himself instead of blaming the police officials and resign ' , he added . Meanwhile , BJP N-E zonal organising Secretary V Satish in a press release here condemned the serial blasts in the city today and demanded Gogoi 's resignation for his utter failure in controlling the ever deteriorating law and order situation . Suspected militants of the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) today triggered eight blasts in different parts of the State . Four blasts took place here , including one at the LOC_Event injuring two persons . A Sub-Inspector was killed and the officer-in-charge of a police station injured while defusing a bomb in LOC_Event 's Bongaigaon district . Police recovered two unexploded bombs here . An unexploded bomb had been found near the airport this evening . Army experts were rushed to defuse the unexploded bomb . Three blasts occurred at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event in the evening . While two persons , including a policeman , were injured in the blast near the Sonapur police outpost , there was no casualty in the other blasts . In LOC_Event , the blast occurred near a private hospital while the one in LOC_Event occurred near a police outspost . The Inspector-General of Police ( Special Branch ) , Khagen Sharma , said that the police were trying to ascertain if the explosions were caused by programmable time delay devices . Earlier in the day , blasts took place in the LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts . There were , however , no casualties . UNI adds : . . Most of the blasts were of low intensity and were aimed at creating panic rather than causing serious harm to any installations , officials said . The blasts come after the attack on January 26 , when two bombs exploded in the parade ground here . The ULFA has not yet claimed responsibility for the blasts . The Chief Minister , Tarun Gogoi , reviewed the situation with senior police officers . Security has been beefed up in the State . Other States - LOC_Event 9 more blasts rock LOC_Event . . By Sushanta Talukdar . . GUWAHATI , MARCH 10 . Nine more blasts triggered by the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) rocked LOC_Event since late last night even as security has been strengthened throughout the State . One CRPF member was injured in a blast in the heart of the city here tonight while there was no report of any casualty in the other five blasts that occurred since yesterday midnight . While six blasts occurred today , the militant outfit triggered three more late last night . The CRPF man was injured when suspected ULFA militants lobbed a grenade at a CRPF transit camp near the busy Ulubari Flyover here at6 .45 p.m. tonight . The injured personnel , H.R. Yadav , was rushed to hospital . Earlier during the day the ULFA triggered five more blasts two in LOC_Event district , one each in LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts . Police said six live bombs were recovered in different parts of the State today . Army and police explosive experts detonated three bombs recovered in the city . Even as the police and the Army were busy defusing live bombs , militants triggered a blast at 11 p.m. in which a compound wall of the CRPF group centre at Ninth Mile on the outskirts of the city was damaged . The outfit also triggered two more blasts on a gas and oil pipeline in Dibrugarh and Sivsagar district late last night . BJP plans protest . . The Bharatiya Janata Party State unit will undertake a Dispur gherao ' programme to demand , among other things , dismissal of the Tarun Gogoi-led Congress Government for its failure to contain extremist violence and protect lives and property of the common people '' . The BJP leader , Venkaiah Naidu , is scheduled to attend the programme . National ULFA triggers two blasts in LOC_Event . . By Sushanta Talukdar . . LOC_Event , APRIL 3 . The United Liberation Front of Asom has triggered two more blasts since Saturday night , even as police today recovered five explosive devices from different parts of LOC_Event . A panchayat office was badly damaged in a blast suspected to have been triggered by the militant outfit in LOC_Event district late last night . Another blast occurred in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event town tonight when militants lobbed a grenade . A major tragedy was averted when a device recovered near the blast site was defused by explosive experts . Police also recovered an explosive device in Tinsukia and three crude bombs in Dhubri district . Even as the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal came under attack from opposition parties for alleged terror links following the October 2 blast in LOC_Event district reportedly in the house of a party member , a Union Home Ministry official indicated that the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) might take over the investigation . Two men , identified as Shakil Ahmad and Sovon Mondal , were killed in the blast . The government has taken cognisance of the incident and may transfer the case to the NIA for further investigations if necessary , the official said . Preliminary findings by Central agencies indicated that the two men killed in the blast at the house of TMC leader Nurul Hasan Choudhury could be linked to an extremist group . The local police have purportedly seized several watch dials and SIM cards from the house , rented to Shakil Ahmad . Denying the allegation that the Trinamool Congress had links with the blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event ( LOC_Event ) district last Thursday , party general secretary Mukul Roy said the investigation was following normal procedure . He lauded the police administration for a proper and fast investigation . Two persons were killed and another was injured in the blast . Earlier in the day , the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) charged the Trinamool with having links with the blast . How do we know if the BJP and the CPI ( M ) are not linked with the blast and is trying to create unrest in the State ? Mr. Roy asked . He alleged that the Opposition was making irresponsible comments . Biman Bose , CPI ( M ) State secretary , and the BJP are trying to disturb the peace and thus denigrate the government ... by making irresponsible statements . Denying the allegation that the house where the blast occurred had a Trinamool office , Mr. Roy said it must be substantiated . Local people would have known , if the house had the Trinamool office . Electronic media would have filmed ... do you have any footage that establishes that the house had ( party ) office , he asked . One may cook any allegation but it has to be substantiated . In the Babri Masjid demolition case , many allegations were made against BJP leaders , but nothing materialised , he said . BJP charge . . BJP leader Siddharth Nath Singh said at a press conference in Delhi that Bangladeshi infiltrators had rented the housed . Mr. Singh said : The local police destroyed all evidence to cover up the incident so that the Trinamool remained above suspicion . The local police collected samples and destroyed it within seven hours . The evidence included mobile phones , ID , IM proofs and al-Qaedas jihadi literature . Since the Central forces were informed late , they could not reach on time . All these raise questions on the Mamata Banerjee government , Mr. Singh said . Central agency sources told The Hindu that their officials were not allowed entry into the house even two days after the explosion . However , West Bengal Home Secretary Basudeb Banerjee denied non-cooperation with the Central agencies . West Bengal Left Front committee chairperson Biman Basu quoted newspaper reports to say pamphlets of banned Muslim fundamentalist organisation were recovered from the house . Later , the CPI ( M ) said in a statement that the Trinamool office was located in the house . Soon after the explosion , the signboard of the Trinamool Congress was removed ... local people alleged that that the police tried to block the probe initially , Mr. Bose said . The war of words between the All India Trinamool Congress ( AITC ) and the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) triggered by the blast in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district has entered the domain of the social media . . . Abhishek Banerjee , AITC MP and nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday responded to the remarks made by BJP leader Subramanian Swamy and accused him of spreading false propaganda and creating apocryphal and spurious stories . Dr Swamy on Sunday had raised several questions relating to the blast stating that the explosion had occurred in the LOC_Event Nurul Hasan Choudhury and that the house was also used as regional headquarters of the ruling party in West Bengal . The BJP leader also asked as why Ms. Banerjee should not be interrogated by investigating agencies . . . Without an iota of doubt I can say that you are good at sharing your thoughts and expressing your views only on Twitter and Facebook accounts . Your public interaction remains confined within the four walls of the studious of a few news channels , Mr Banerjee said in a statement his Facebook page . . . Dr Swamy also alleged that the West Bengal police destroyed all evidences before the central investigating agencies ( NIA , IB and other central agencies ) could arrive at the spot . . . Mr. Banerjee has responded stating that either the BJP leader should support his statements with facts or should withdraw unwarranted comments and apologise unconditionally before the country . The LOC_Event Criminal Investigation Department ( CID ) on Monday held one more person for the blast at LOC_Event , taking the number of arrests to three . While the spouses of the two accused in the blast , Gulsana Bibi and Alima Bibi , were arrested on Sunday , Hashem Molla , a resident of Purbasthali town in Bardhaman district , was nabbed on Monday . Molla was produced in court and was remanded in 12-day police custody , Deputy Inspector of General ( CID ) Dilip Adak said . The West Bengal unit of the BJP is blaming Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for blocking a probe by the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) into last Thursdays blast in LOC_Event . But officials at the Centre said it was the Union government that was yet to decide on handing over the probe to the central agency . A senior official attached to the NIA in Delhi too said the Home Ministry had not approached them to probe the blast , in which two persons were killed . Bangladesh has asked India to share any details of the LOC_Event blast investigation that point to the hand of Islamist terror groups on its soil . The West Bengal police are investigating if any of the four people arrested for the October 2 blast at the house of a local Trinamool Congress supporter have links with underground or terrorist groups in Bangladesh . Along with certain explosives , literature used for making bombs was found at the site of the blast . Expressing concern over the incident , Bangladeshs junior Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan told The Hindu over phone : We have good relations with India . We share all information on sensitive issues . We would like the Indian Government to do the same in this case . The prime suspect in the blast , Shakeel Ahmed , who died on the spot , had allegedly crossed over from Bangladesh in 2009 . He had earlier rented a house in Beldanga in Murshidabad and only a few months ago rented the one in Khagragarh in LOC_Event , where the explosion occurred . The Minister said the Government of Bangladesh has not allowed its territory to be used for anti-Indian activities . We have dismantled several camps along the border which were involved in such activities , Mr. Khan said . Six days after the blast in West Bengals LOC_Event district , the four accused arrested in the case have been charged under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act ( UAPA ) , Amended , 2008 , officials of the Criminal Investigation Department ( CID ) said here on Wednesday . We have charged all the four accused including two women under several sections of the UAPA Act , Dilip Adak , Deputy Inspector General of CID , told The Hindu . The accused have also been charged under IPC sections 121A , 122 and 123 relating to waging war against the State . While Abdul Hakim , an accused present at the site when the blast occurred , was arrested on Tuesday Hashem Molla , another accused , was arrested on Monday . Two women -- Gulsana Bibi and Alima Bibi -- who were present in the building after the blast occurred on October 2 were arrested on Sunday . Earlier , the women were charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code . During the day , the two were brought to the CID headquarters in the city for interrogation . The other accused were brought to the city earlier . Meanwhile , the Union Home Ministry has given a report to Home Minister Rajnath Singh about the blast . Other houses searched . . Meanwhile , the police conducted searches at two houses which are in the vicinity of the house where the blast took place . The police suspect Kauser , one of the accused who is at large and whose sketch police have released , used the houses . At one of the houses at Baburbagh , the police seized firearms and bullets along with other documents . The All India Trinamool Congress led by general secretary Mukul Roy held a rally in LOC_Event town alleging that the BJP is spreading canards against the State government . The BJP State unit will take out a rally on Thursday . The Union Home Ministry has sought a report from the West Bengal government on the LOC_Event blast case , in which four persons have been arrested . The Centre is yet to take a decision on handing over the case to the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) . Given that the West Bengal Police have invoked the Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act provisions pertaining to allegations of terror act , conspiracy , organising terror training camps and harbouring , the case falls within NIA jurisdiction . Scheduled Offences . . The Act is among the laws listed in the Scheduled Offences category of the NIA Act , empowering the agency to conduct the investigation . The Centre can transfer cases of scheduled offences to the NIA , either based on the report submitted by the State government as provided under Section 6 ( 4 ) or suo motu under Section 6 ( 5 ) of the NIA Act . Six days after the accidental blast in LOC_Event district , the four arrested in the case have been charged under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act ( UAPA ) , Criminal Investigation Department ( CID ) officials said here on Wednesday . We have charged all the four including two women under several sections of the UAPA , Dilip Adak , Deputy Inspector General of CID , told The Hindu . The accused have also been charged under other sections of the Indian Penal Code such as 121A , 122 and 123 relating to waging war against the state . While Abdul Hakim , who was present at the blast site , was arrested on Tuesday , Hashem Molla , another accused in the case was arrested on Monday . In the wake of the blast in West Bengals LOC_Event district which has raised serious security concerns , it has come to light that the State government has rendered the Security Commission defunct . The Supreme Court had directed setting up of the Commission in 2006 . It was in June 2010 that the Left Front Government brought out a gazette notification setting up the West Bengal State Security Commission which shall deliberate on the security concerns of the State among other issues . The Commission was to be headed by the Home Minister but the government appointed the then Health Minister , Surjya Kanta Mishra , as its Chairman . In December 2010 , the Supreme Court asked the State government to comply with the order in letter and spirit and appoint Home Minister as its chairperson . Commenting on the issue , Dr Mishra , who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly , told The Hindu that he had written to the Governor and as well as the State government pointing out that the Commission was a Constitutional obligation and that it be reconstituted . He said he hasnt received any answer . This government feels that having such a functioning commission would undermine its powers to take arbitrary decisions and ensure lack of transparency in its functioning , Dr Mishra added . Retired General Sankar Roychowdhury who was the member of the Commission appointed by the Left Front Government also admitted that he had not heard about the Commission since 2010 . In my opinion , it was not taken seriously by the Government after 2010 , Mr Roychowdhury said . On being contacted , senior Minister Partha Chatterjee , who was the Leader of Opposition in the previous Left Front regime , said he was not aware of the Commission and asked to check the website of the Home Department instead . The website has no mention of the Commission . In fact , the government has not responded to RTI queries made by international NGO , Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative ( CHRI ) , which has prepared a report on the functioning of the State Security Commission all across the country . Anirudha Nagar , programme officer of CHRI who has worked on the report , said the organisation filed RTI queries in April 2013 to the office of State Director General of Police , which was later transferred to the Home department but no response has come from the government . States like Delhi and Kerala have set up the Commission and they hold regular meetings , Mr Nagar added . A day after the Union Home Ministry directed National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) to take over investigation in the accidental blast at LOC_Event district of West Bengal , Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday that there is an increasing trend of interference by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre in the matters of the State . I feel like sharing with my Facebook friends that ever since the new government has come to power at the Centre , there is an increasing trend of interference by the Central Government in the State matters , the Chief Minister wrote on her Facebook page . Accusing the Central Government of frequently and unnecessarily interfering in State matters , Ms. Banerjee said such interference is not at all expected as per the Constitution . The beauty of federal structure is the jurisdiction of working between the Centre and the State , Ms. Banerjee said and added : Primarily , the role of the Central Government is to deal with matters concerning major policies/decision making issues . It is expected that Centre and the States do not encroach upon the areas of activities of others . Ms. Banerjee further said that the Central Government is acting like a political party rather than a national government . She also alleged that with the active support of the Central Government controversial matters are aired in electronic media like Doordarshan and private channels resulting in communal tension in different States . In the post , the Chief Minister made no reference to the NIA probe in the LOC_Event blast , but the remarks are being made at a time when her party colleagues were opposing the probe by the Central agency . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) registered a case on Friday in connection with the LOC_Event blast in West Bengal and sent a team for examining the crime scene . The NIA says the two persons killed in the October 2 explosion are believed to be Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh members . While the case will be investigated by the agencys Kolkata branch , two senior officials have been sent for supervision . Ten persons , two of them women , have been held in connection with the blast . Six of the suspects were tracked down to Barpeta in Assam . The NIA will take the suspects into custody for questioning . There is evidence to suggest that those involved had links in Bangladesh . If necessary , we will also contact Bangladeshi authorities seeking cooperation in the probe . The material evidence will be sent for forensic examination and analysis . The case papers are being handed over to us , an official said . The NIA team will examine the data in the mobile phones seized from the suspects . The call records will be retrieved to ascertain if they had links in other States . It is learnt that the West Bengal Police collected more physical evidence from the blast site on Friday . : Even as officials of the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) started their probe into the accidental blast in Bardhaman district of West Bengal , political slugfest over the investigation continued here on Saturday with the All India Trinamool Congress ( AITC ) attributing a political motive to the probe . Stating that the West Bengal government had sent its report a day after the blast ( October 2 ) , AITC secretary general Partha Chatterjee said that the probe was ordered only a few days ago . The States ruling party has opposed the probe by the NIA , but the Union Home Ministry directed the investigating agency to investigate the matter , which lodged an FIR on Friday . Meanwhile , a team of officials from the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) visited the accidental blast site at LOC_Event in the LOC_Event district and collected evidence and photographs from the site . The officials later met the district superintendent of police , SHM Mirza . The NIA also approached a West Bengal court seeking the custody of the accused arrested in the case as well as transfer of the case to a court in Kolkata , an official said . Four persons have been arrested in the blast , including two women . Two persons , who died in the blasts , have links to Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen of Bangladesh , those investigating the blasts have said . Accusing the Centre of failing to check cross border infiltration Mr. Chatterjee , who is also a Minister in the AITC government , said that the Centre was entrusted the responsibility with deploying BSF at the border . People are randomly crossing the border , making bombs here and selling them . Who are these people ? ... Why is the State government being blamed for security lapses in the border ? It is the Centres responsibility to deploy BSF personnel at the border , Mr. Chatterjee told media persons and sought answers from the Centre regarding this . Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) leader Shamik Bhattacharya said that instead of blaming the Centre the ruling party should take a closer look of who are those creating problems along the border . The AITC needs to check some of the checkpoints at the border and know who are operating from there . The AITC leaders are surely aware of this and the party needs to check the involvement of its own members regarding this , Mr. Bhattacharya said . Days after the blast in LOC_Event district where two persons died , the police seized a large quantity of gelatine sticks and detonators from Raghunathpur area in Purulia district on Saturday . Two persons have been detained . Acting on a tip off we intercepted a vehicle and seized 2,700 gelatine sticks and 11,000 detonators , Purulia Superintendent of Police S. K. Neelakantam told The Hindu . The National Investigation Agency teams stationed in different parts of the country have been alerted to pursue leads , obtained from mobile phone records , suggesting that those arrested in the LOC_Event blast case had links in several States . Phone records reveal that they had contacts in almost all the major megacities , also in South India . We will have to verify the antecedents of each and every contact . Six of the Assam-based suspects who were in touch with the two men killed in the blast have already been arrested , said an official . An NIA team on Sunday visited the blast site along with explosives experts . We also went to LOC_Event , located in LOC_Event , where the accused were purportedly radicalised . The NIA teams are also camping in Kolkata , Nadia and Assam . A number of key players in the conspiracy have been identified , said an NIA statement . Three suspects , Razia , Amina and Badrul Alam Molla , are being interrogated . The NIA suspects that those involved were members of the Jamaatul Mujahideen Bangladesh . Investigations of the October 2 explosion in Bardhaman have indicated that extremists may be taking shelter in LOC_Event . One of those arrested suspected of belonging to the banned Jamaatul Mujahideen Bangladesh allegedly confessed that bombs were being assembled for terror strikes across the border . Bangladeshs elite anti-terror Rapid Action Battalion is currently verifying names and identities that have emerged from the Indian probe . Bangladesh Minister for Home Affairs Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal said India had not yet officially provided the nationality of the two persons suspected militants Shakil Ahmed and Sobhan Mandal killed in the blast . We are always against terrorism . We will not allow anyone to use our land to conduct militant or terrorist activities against our country or neighbouring India , he said . Besides the two killed , one Hasan Saheb was injured in the blast ; three persons Rajira Bibi alias Rumi , Amina Bibi and Hafez Mollah alias Hasan have been arrested . According to Indian Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Syed Akbaruddin , Indian investigating agencies have been asked to collate and tabulate information on the LOC_Event blast to be shared with Bangladesh . Bangladesh has offered all support to India in probing the October 2 incident . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) has gathered abundant evidence in its ongoing probe into the October 2 blast in LOC_Event district in LOC_Event , despite the initial lack of cooperation from the State police . Union Home Ministry sources in New Delhi told The Hindu that the attitude of the State police led to the destruction of some significant evidence , but the abundance of evidence it managed to gather on its own has raised the investigators hopes of cracking the case soon . -LSB- A lot of -RSB- evidence , witnesses and material have been collected by the NIA investigators , even while the State police tried to block the central officials initially , a senior official said . The NIA allegedly faced similar hostility from the local police in other States too . However , once the NIA roped in the State police , better cooperation was forthcoming . Here -LSB- in LOC_Event -RSB- also , the State police and NIA officials are working together . Political links . . While the investigators and the Home Ministry are reasonably sure that banned militant outfit Jamaatul Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) was involved in the LOC_Event blast , the agencies are exploring possible links between the JMB and All-India Trinamool Congress ( AITC ) leaders . However , the NIA is not in a hurry to summon them before putting together a watertight case , senior officials in Delhi said . Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday the Trinamool Congress government would extend full cooperation to the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) probing the LOC_Event case . Addressing a press conference here , she lashed out at the Bharartiya Janata Party ( BJP ) - led government at the Centre for not consulting the State Government before initiating the NIA probe . She said : If something has happened , it should be looked into seriously . A crime is crime . All criminals are the same . Ms. Banerjee also said that crime should not be linked to any religion . Their ( criminals ) only religion is extremism . We never support it and never will , she said . Refuting BJPs allegation that the AITC government is going soft on infiltration from Bangladesh , Ms. Banerjee said infiltration is a Central subject and pointed out that the State police do not guard the borders . Praising the LOC_Event police for its performance in probing the LOC_Event blast case , she said : Even before they ( Centre ) said anything , the LOC_Event police slapped the accused with UAPA ( Unlawful Activities Prevention Act ) . Rubbishing the Oppositions allegation that the LOC_Event police were not cooperating with the NIA , she claimed that even the Central investigative agency has acknowledged total cooperation on part of the LOC_Event police . She accused the media of distorting her post on a social networking site soon after the Centre initiated the NIA probe into the case . : The improvised explosives devices , ( IEDs ) recovered from house of one of the accused in the LOC_Event blast case , were detonated along the banks of Damodar river on Friday . A sack full of IEDs in the form of grenades was recovered from the house of an accused in LOC_Event town late on Thursday evening . While most of the hand grenades were detonated at a place near Sadar Ghat outside the LOC_Event town , two improvised hand grenades have been preserved for further investigation . The sack containing explosives was destroyed in three controlled explosions , which was coordinated by officials of National Investigation Agency in the presence of National Security Guards . While four persons including two women have been arrested in connection with the accidental blast on October 2 at LOC_Event in LOC_Event town , many accused are still at large . Meanwhile , the BJP fired a fresh salvo at the State police stating that they searched the same house , but could not find the explosives . Why did Mamata Banerjee prevent an NIA investigation into the LOC_Event blast for a week ? BJP national secretary Siddharth Nath Singh said at a party rally here . : The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) probing the Oct. 2 LOC_Event blast said on Friday that the accused and their associates belong to the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen ( JuM ) Bangladesh , a terror organisation proscribed there . The NIA might announce cash rewards for information on those absconding . Two persons died in the blast . Four persons , including two women , are under the custody of the NIA . Kausar and Rezaul Karim , from whose house a cache of improvised explosives was recovered days after the blast , are still at large . On the eve of his visit to LOC_Event in West Bengal , where two suspected members of Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) were killed in the October 2 bomb blast , National Security Adviser Ajit Doval said there appeared to be a large network of the banned group that the investigators were working to unravel . Mr. Doval told The Hindu that both Indian and Bangladeshi governments were working in close coordination in the fight against terrorism . Both the countries enjoy excellent bilateral relations and we have been working together , he said . The NSA said the case had serious implications and required a comprehensive investigation . Special Secretary ( Internal Security ) Prakash Mishra and representatives of the Research and Analysis Wing , the Intelligence Bureau and the National Investigation Agency may accompany the NSA to West Bengal . NIA Director-General Sharad Kumar had earlier visited LOC_Event and Murshidabad on October 24 . : Stressing that the Centre has taken the accidental blast at LOC_Event very seriously , senior officials of the Union Home Ministry including National Security Adviser ( NSA ) Ajit Doval met LOC_Event Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at the State Secretariat here on Monday . After a two-hour meeting with the Chief Minister and senior officials , Prakash Mishra , Special Secretary ( Internal Security ) at the Union Home Ministry said the Centre and LOC_Event are together in fighting terror . The visit of senior Home Ministry officials is crucial as the Trinamool Congress had initially opposed the probe by National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) . Recently Ms. Banerjee had expressed displeasure that the Centre had not taken her into confidence while ordering the probe . I am very happy to say that the Chief Minister has given an assurance that the Centre and State will work together in unearthing the entire case , Mr. Mishra told journalists . Mr. Mishra also added that the Home Ministry will work on improving the capacity of State police and central forces engaged in this operation so that the investigation reaches its logical end . Nearly four months ago an accidental blast in LOC_Event exposed a terror network operating in different districts of West Bengal , Assam and Jharkhand , the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) on Wednesday arrested Mufazzil Haque alias Laden . Haque is a resident of Mokimnagar in West Bengals Murshidabad district and was closely associated with Sheikh Rahmatullah , alias Sajid who died in the LOC_Event blast on October 2 , the NIA claimed . The accused is alleged to have been running a madarasa in Mokimnagar . This is the 17th arrest by the NIA in connection with the blast . Only a few days ago the NIA had arrested four persons in connection with the incident . It has been learnt that Haques name came up during questioning the four accused arrested last month . According to the NIA , the investigation in the past three months has revealed that senior members of Jammat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh had established terrorist training centres and bomb making units in Beldanga and Mokimnagar in Murshidabad Nanur of Birbhum and Khagraghar and Simulia of Bhurdman District . All the 17 accused are behind bars while two persons including Sajid died in the blast . The NIA is yet to file charge sheet in connection with the blast . This is the 17th arrest by the NIA in connection with the blast . Burdwan : An unpainted two-storey house with a pink window on the first floor - that was the scene of the blast in West Bengal 's LOC_Event on Thursday in which two suspected militants were killed and a third injured.Alima and Rumi , the wives of one of the injured and one of the dead , have been arrested . When they moved into the first floor flat at LOC_Event 's Khargagarh area four months ago , they apparently told the landlord they were in the burqa-making business . But what they allegedly made here instead , were bombs.A narrow grilled doorway is the only way up to the first floor . When police and firemen rushed here after the blast , the two women allegedly barred them from entering the flat where the explosion had occurred and used the time to allegedly burn incriminating material , including pamphlets that mentioned Al Qaeda chief Ayman al Zawahari and the words Mujahedeen '' and Chechen Rebels '' . Almost overshadowing investigations is the political row between the Trinamool and the CPM and the BJP over the incident . The opposition parties want the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) to probe the blast and not the state police . They allege there are links between the ruling party and the people behind the blast.These allegations have emerged from the fact that a Trinamool supporter owns the building , and Trinamool flags were found inside a room on the ground floor . The Trinamool denies any links . Party MP Mukul Roy says there was no Trinamool office in the building . However , local party leaders have said on record that they used the ground floor room during elections.Police suspect a Bangladeshi link and that the suspected terrorists may have had connections with militant groups across the border.A lot of answers could come from the two women arrested and under interrogations . But , according to reports , the women are not giving anything away . One of the women reportedly told her interrogators that she could kill people . . The building where the blast took place is located in LOC_Event area.Kolkata : After three arrests and two raids over last week 's blast in LOC_Event , the West Bengal police feel it could involve a terror network - giving teeth to opposition demands to involve the National Investigation agency or the Central Bureau of Investigation . On Wednesday , the case , which had been filed under the Explosives Act , was also brought under Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act - a law that 's applied in cases where the integrity and sovereignty of the country is threatened . The new charge was brought in hours after the police raided two houses in LOC_Event , making official the suspicion that the two men , who died in the October 2 blast at the house in LOC_Event , could have been terrorists . ( LOC_Event Blast : Burqa Factory Front for Bomb-Making Plant ? ) There had been other evidence - improvised explosive devices and material to make them , watch dials and detonators recovered from the house . Some printed material was also found , which had references to Al Qaeda , Indian Mujahideen and even the Chechen rebels.On October 5 , two women residents of the house were arrested . One of them was the wife of Shakil Ahmed , a man who died in the blast . Another 's husband , Abdul Hasan , had been injured . A third - a man - was arrested later . Their questioning led to the raids in two houses -- one at Baburbag , the other at Badshahi Road - barely a kilometer from the blast site . ( LOC_Event Blasts : Two Women Arrested , Bengal Becoming Terror Haven , says BJP ) The police were looking for a man called called Kausar , but he had had fled . Kauser , who was probably a Bangladeshi national , used to visit Shakil Ahmed . Police suspect he collected bombs from Shakil for delivery to unknown recipients . At the house , police found a driving license , four pistols and 63 bullets.The six residents of the other house have gone missing as well . Following the raids , the police added the UAPA to the case . The opposition , which had accused the ruling Trinamool Congress of involvement and alleged that the police destroyed evidence , has now stepped up its demands to call in the NIA . ( LOC_Event Blast : 2 Women Arrested , Trinamool Denies Links ) The incident is linked to Bangladesh and who knows which other countries . That 's why it should be probed by the CBI or NIA , '' said BJP leader Rahul Sinha . The CPM 's SK Mishra echoed it , saying , If they ( state police and CID ) are not afraid they will be caught red-handed for hiding something , they should hand it over to NIA . '' . The building where the blast took place is located in LOC_Event area.New Delhi/Kolkata : The National Investigation Agency has registered a First Information Report in the bomb blast case in LOC_Event in West Bengal , after the Centre on Thursday decided to hand over the probe to the agency , a decision which sources in the Trinamool Congress government said was taken suo motu.The decision to hand over the case to the NIA was taken by the Centre in view of international ramifications of the case where some nationals from neighbouring Bangladesh were also allegedly involved , official sources said in Delhi.A notification was issued under the NIA Act and the agency will be registering an FIR on Friday , sources said . We have informed the Centre about the incident and no opinion has been given from the state government side , '' a highly-placed state government source said in Kolkata . The Centre has the powers to initiate a suo motu probe in this regard and this is what the Ministry of Home Affairs has done , '' the source said . The state government has the copy of the MHA order dated today which clearly says that NIA has taken up the matter to probe suo motu , '' the source added.The BJP and CPI ( M ) while demanding that the Centre hand over the case to NIA has alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government was trying to hush up the matter . The BJP also accused the state government of resisting '' a NIA probe.The Union Home Ministry had received reports from central agencies and the state government about the October 2 blast in which two suspected militants - Shakil Ahmed and Sovan Mandal - were killed and another man Hasan Saheb was injured.The state government , which appeared to be initially reluctant to accept that the incident in LOC_Event had suspected terror links , handed over the case to the state CID after material collected from the blast site showed that a group was assembling bombs in the house and planning to carry out a strike.A large number of watch dials , SIM cards and other tools required to make improvised explosive devices were seized from the house where the blast occurred.Four persons , including two women , have been arrested so far in the case . . The building in LOC_Event where an explosion occurred on October 2Burdwan : A six-member team of the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) on Saturday visited the site of an explosion in West Bengal 's LOC_Event on October 2 in which two suspected militants were killed and another was injured . Four people , including two women , have been arrested connection with the blast.The visit came on a day when central intelligence officials searched the house of a suspect at LOC_Event in the neighbouring district of Birbhum and a house owner in LOC_Event filed a police complaint stating his tenants were missing since October 6 . The tenants included a couple and their young daughter . They had moved into the house in August . The husband 's name was Sheikh Taled . Soon after , another couple moved into their house . All of them have been missing since the 6th of this month . The landlord , Balwar Sheikh unsuccessfully tried to contact them on phone.What has worried the police is the fact that the missing tenant , Sheikh Taled , told the landlord that he belonged to Kirnahar , where President Pranab Mukherjee 's sister lives . The President visited the town in the Birbhum district during Durga Puja . Police is currently on the lookout of certain people in Kirnahar who may have some links with the blast in LOC_Event . Call records from a SIM card recovered from the blast site showed several calls had been made to people in Kirnanar on September 27 and some other dates.The police has also sealed Balwar Sheikh 's flat from where his tenants mysteriously disappeared.The NIA , which is probing the case approached a West Bengal court on Saturday , seeking the custody of the accused arrested in the case as well as transfer of the case to a Kolkata court , an official said . . The bombs were detonated today on a sandy stretch a little away from LOC_Event town.Burdwan : The West Bengal police 's handling of the initial investigation into the October 2 blast in LOC_Event might have allowed at least three dozen people possibly connected with the explosion that killed two people , to escape to Bangladesh , say sources in the National Investigation Agency or NIA , which now has charge of the investigation . ( LOC_Event Blast Case : 30 Grenades Found From House Sealed by Bengal Police ) The sources said the local police had failed to make much headway in the case even after the arrest of three prime suspects in the case . This despite the fact that the Bengal police had also recovered a pen drive from a house in the area , that had a recording of an instructor explaining in Urdu and Bangla how to make bombs , improvised explosive devices and hand grenades . ( LOC_Event Blast : National Investigation Agency Team Visits Madrasa ) The pen drive has now been handed over to the NIA , which has , since it began its investigation on Sunday , also reportedly found material suggesting that an abandoned madrasa may have been used as a hub by people linked to the LOC_Event blast to make bombs that were exported to Bangladesh . On Thursday , the NIA found more than 30 IEDs in the toilet of a house near the blast site - one that was searched and sealed by the state police eight days ago . The Bengal police had raided the house on October 8 after questioning the two women arrested in the case and found it vacant . ( National Investigation Agency Files Complaint in LOC_Event Blast Case ) But yesterday , sniffer dogs of the NIA and the elite National Security Guards or NSG found the bombs , which were detonated today on a sandy stretch a little away from LOC_Event town . The NIA reportedly estimates that about 36 people allegedly associated with the manufacturing of bombs and hand grenades should have been in apprehended , among them terror masterminds . But the local police did not even raid the madarsa , which came under the scanner after the two women arrested for the LOC_Event blast allegedly admitted their links with it . The opposition in the state , including the BJP that rules at the Centre , has alleged that the state police are hiding evidence at the behest of the ruling Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress , which had vehemently opposed handing the case over to the NIA . The Trinamool has lashed back , saying the party has full confidence in the state police . In a recent Facebook post , Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee did not mention the LOC_Event blast directly or the deployment of NIA , but accused the Centre of violating the federal structure of the country . ( BJP 's Arrogance , Conduct Reminiscent of Emergency Days : Mamata Banerjee ) . The building in LOC_Event where an explosion occurred on October 2Kolkata : The blast in West Bengal 's LOC_Event district has raised a question in intelligence circles . Is there a joint venture between Bangladeshi and Indian terror outfits ? Most experts say the answer is a resounding yes . If the external outfit is the Jamaat-e-Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) , what are some of the Indian groups linked to it , groups which have helped JMB set up its network and bomb-making units in Bengal ? Shakil Ahmed aka Shakil Gazi , the man who died in the LOC_Event blast on October 2 , is believed to be a Bangladeshi . Before setting up the bomb-making unit in LOC_Event , he used to live in Murshidabad district 's Beldanga with his wife and child , where he ran a burqa-making factory.Interrogation of his widow , who was arrested from the blast site , and intelligence inputs suggest he was a member of the JMB which entered into a joint venture with Indian terror groups to set up shop in Bengal . This was definitely a joint venture between at least two groups of terrorists , if not three , '' says Subir Bhaumik , a journalist who has been a long-time Bangladesh watcher . The JMB was definitely involved , from all evidence , This was actually something that was happening over a period of time . Manash Ghosh of the Statesman newspaper agreed as well . No doubt about it . It is absolutely sure . I hope our investigating agencies are able to unearth the nexus . On the ground , we can see it happening , '' said Mr Ghosh . Names of many Indian terror groups have surfaced in connection with the blasts , including the Indian Mujahideen , Al Jihad , Al Ummah and even SIMI.But why would JMB want to make bombs in Bengal for export to Bangladesh ? Dhaka watchers suggest that Shiekh Hasina made it impossible for the JMB to function in Bangladesh after is ban in 2005 . It was getting too hot for Jamaat to operate in Bangladesh , '' said Mr Ghosh . Many of their cadres were getting killed in crossfire , in encounters with rapid action battalions of Sheikh Hasina government . A probe by the National Investigation Agency is currently underway into the October 2 blast . . The building in LOC_Event where an explosion occurred on October 2Kolkata : National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) chief Sharad Kumar arrived today in West Bengal 's Burdwan district to take stock of the investigation into the October 2 blast in which militant outfit Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh is suspected to have been involved.The blast of an improvised explosive device ( IED ) in a rented house in LOC_Event killed two suspected militants and injured another.Six people , including two women , have been arrested for involvement in the blast which is being probed by the NIA following a directive by the union home ministry.NIA Director General Sharad Kumar , accompanied by Inspector General of Police Sanjeev Kumar Singh and Superintendent of Police Vikram Kharate , visited the house in which the blast occurred.He is also slated to visit the Simulia madarsa and then go to Beldanga in Murshidabad district where one of the killed militants , Shakil Gazi , had a rented accommodation.Mr Kumar will later hold a meeting with the NIA probe team in Kolkata . . Burdwan : The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) has said that all four persons arrested in connection with the blast in West Bengal 's LOC_Event on October 2 are members of the terror group , Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) . The agency also said that the accused were preparing improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) for transporting them to Bangladesh for possible terror attacks . Investigation so far has revealed that the accused persons and their associates were the members of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen , Bangladesh ( JMB ) , a terrorist organisation proscribed in Bangladesh and they were preparing IEDs which were being transported to Bangladesh , '' the NIA said in a statement on Friday.Two men , Shakil Ahmed and Suvon Mandal alias Subhan - both allegedly residents of Bangladesh - were killed while making the IEDs in a rented house in LOC_Event in LOC_Event . A third , Abdul Hakim alias Hassan was injured . He was arrested by the NIA along with three others , including two women - one of them is the widow of a terror suspect who died in the blast.On Friday , NIA chief Sharad Kumar visited LOC_Event and inspected the house where the blast occurred . He also visited another house at nearby Mathpara in LOC_Event where 39 IEDs were found on October 17 by the NIA ; 37 of them were detonated . The house , incidentally , had been searched and sealed by the state police eight days before the NIA recovered the IEDs . We have evolved strategies regarding arrests of absconding accused persons . I ca n't reveal anything because it will affect the investigation , '' Mr Kumar told reporters.The NIA is also considering announcing cash rewards for any information leading to the arrest of those absconding accused of this case which include JMB members from Bangladesh '' . National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is likely to visit LOC_Event on Monday to take stock of the investigation.The government is preparing a dossier which will be shared with Bangladesh which had sought details on the case . . File photo : National Security Advisor Ajit DovalKolkata : Two days after National Investigation Agency or NIA 's Director General Sharad Kumar visited the LOC_Event blast site , National Security Advisor Ajit Doval is scheduled to visit the village in West Bengal where the blast took place on October 2 . He is also likely to meet Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee.According to state secretariat sources , Mr Doval , who will arrive on Monday morning , is likely to meet Ms Banerjee and senior state officials at the state secretariat in the afternoon.He will also travel to LOC_Event where he is expected to assess the progress of the probe , official sources said.The National Investigation Agency had on Friday said that the arrested persons and their associates were members of terror group Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh , who were makingImprovised explosive devices to be transported to the neighbouring country for possible terror attacks.The visit by the NIA DG and the scheduled trip of Me Doval come ahead of the central government 's decision to send a report to Bangladesh , following a request from that country in this regard.Three persons , including two women - one of them the widow of a suspected terrorist who died in the blast - have been arrested by the NIA . . National Security Adviser Ajit Doval ( second from left ) inspects LOC_Event blast siteNew Delhi/Kolkata : National Security Adviser Ajit Doval , one of Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's most trusted officers , today met West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee , whose government has been accused of mishandling the investigation into the blast in LOC_Event on October 2 and ignoring rising lawlessness near the border with Bangladesh.Earlier in the day , Mr Doval visited LOC_Event where the blast has raised fears about a terror plot with international links . Two suspected Bangladeshi militants were killed in what appears to be an accidental blast in a rented house where bombs were being assembled . Four persons , including two women have been arrested ; one of them is the wife of a terror suspect who died in the blast.Sources say Mr Doval will urge Ms Banerjee to cooperate with central investigators . The state police have been accused of multiple lapses in the blast probe . The arrested persons allegedly told the police about another house where more bomb-makers were allegedly hiding , a kilometer away from the blast site . Eight days after the state police searched and sealed the house , the National Investigation Agency found 39 crude bombs in one of its toilets.The Chief Minister , however , defended her forces , saying , Our police have done a good job . On Saturday , National Investigation Agency chief Sharad Kumar inspected the house where the blast took place . The agency later said that all four arrested persons are members of the terror group , Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh . It also said that the accused were preparing crude bombs to transport them to Bangladesh for possible terror attacks.The Centre is worried about a larger plot to destabilize a friendly government in Bangladesh . A dossier being prepared by the government will be shared with Dhaka , which had sought details on the case . . Burdwan : A team of the National Investigation Agency is likely to visit Bangladesh soon , following leads which have come up during the probe into the LOC_Event blast , which has been linked to members of the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh , said sources.Official sources said that during the investigation , the NIA has come across information about the activities of JMB members across India and their links with the neighbouring country.After interrogation of the arrested persons involved in LOC_Event blast , the NIA has come to the conclusion that at least 120 improvised explosive devices or IEDs were transported to Bangladesh in four batches , they said.The two main suspects Sheikh Kausar and Yusuf , who are on the run , are reportedly Bangladeshi nationals with wide contacts in that country . India has also sought details from Bangladesh about the interrogation report of two alleged JMB militants Asif Adnan , 26 , and Fazle Elahi Tanjil , 24 , who were arrested from Segunbagicha area of Dhaka city . Considering all these facts , it is necessary for the investigators to visit Bangladesh sooner than later , '' a source said . India will also hand over a dossier to the Bangladesh government for preventive steps and necessary action which has to be taken by Dhaka to counter the threat posed by JMB , sources added.National Security Advisor Ajit Doval had visited LOC_Event for first-hand knowledge of the conspiracy being hatched by the JMB to target Bangladesh government from the Indian soil.The Narendra Modi government has made it clear that it will have friendly relations with all neighbouring countries and following that policy , the NIA has been asked to complete the investigation into the October 2 blast as soon as possible , sources said . . Kolkata : A city court today remanded LOC_Event blast accused Abdul Hakim to 10 days ' National Investigation Agency or NIA custody after he was produced before it following his release from hospital , where he was undergoing treatment for injuries suffered during the blast.Chief judge , city sessions court , M Mumtaz Khan granted Hakim 's custody to NIA till November 14 , following a prayer by the agency for 15 days ' custody so that it can interrogate him in connection with the blast.The other three arrested in connection with the case - Hasem Mollah , Rajia Bibi and Alima Bibi - were remanded to judicial custody till November 20 on a prayer by the NIA counsel.Hakim was released from the state-run LOC_Event Hospital today after being treated for splinter injuries.The other three were already in judicial custody.Two persons were killed in the accidental blast in a house at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on October 2 , while hand grenades were being manufactured there , leading to the unearthing of an international terror racket . Correspondent . . Tension mounts ; traders and tourists are not able to move around . . Bomb blasts at LOC_Event hotels Junta seals off border Combing operations launched but no one is arrested . . IMPHAL : Trade at the international market along the Manipur-Myanmar border has been disrupted from the beginning of this year following a recrudescence of insurgency-related violence . With tension mounting , traders , tourists and insurgents of all hues have not been able to move around . . . On January 8 , two bombs exploded in two small hotels at LOC_Event , killing two persons and wounding four others . There was no claim by any insurgent group . In the past , firing took place at the LOC_Event market , just across the border gate in Myanmar . After the market was torched twice , heavily armed military personnel are guarding it round the clock . . . Border sealed . . Following the latest incident , the Myanmarese junta sealed off the border . Business was shut down and the movement of all sections banned . The Indian Army sent reinforcements to the border areas for a combing operation . However , no insurgent has been arrested on either side . . . Strike at border town . . Soon after the twin bomb blasts at LOC_Event , a general strike was called at Moreh . And before normality returned to the border town , 24 Assam Rifles personnel gunned down a carpenter at Chawangphai village . Residents alleged he was deliberately singled out and killed . But an Assam Rifles spokesman said six suspects , on seeing the personnel , tried to flee despite a warning . . . Shots were fired at the fleeing ` armed persons ' and in the process the carpenter was fatally hit . . . Rejecting this version , the Kuki Women 's Union on Human Rights , the Hill Tribal Council , the Kuki Students ' Organisation and the Chwangphai Administrative Committee launched a strike . . . It was suspended following an understanding with Assam Rifles personnel . . . On Saturday , insurgents in an ambush killed two personnel of 32 Assam Rifles at Tengoupal , about 30 km from Moreh . . . All sorts of foreign goods are available at the LOC_Event market , constructed in 1995 . Sushanta Talukdar . . Militants lob grenade at police patrol post . . Guwahati : One person was killed and eight security personnel were injured when suspected United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- militants triggered four blasts - three in the LOC_Event and one in Upper Assam 's LOC_Event town - on Sunday night . . . The militants lobbed a grenade at a police patrol post and triggered two time devices almost simultaneously near Police Reserve at LOC_Event and on LOC_Event in LOC_Event . . . Four CRPF personnel and an Assam police personnel were injured when the militants lobbed a grenade at them while they were checking a vehicle near Guwahati Commerce College at 6:10 p.m. . The police said the grenade was lobbed from a car which sped away . . . Almost at the same time two blasts occurred in quick succession near Police Reserve on the busy LOC_Event . A civilian was killed and three police personnel , including the officer-in-charge of LOC_Event station , were injured . . . The first bomb , suspected to be a programmed time device , went off at 6:10 p.m. instantly killing a civilian . Jan. 23 : Blasting pipelines and other vital installations at will , the banned Ulfa has left LOC_Event powerless in more ways than one . . . Neepcos gas-based power plant at Kathalguri went out of business ' experts say it could remain shut for upto seven days ' when militants blew up a pipeline yesterday as part of their pre-Republic Day terror campaign . . . The Assam Gas Company Ltd pipeline carries gas from the oil-collecting station of Oil India Ltd to Neepcos 291-MW power plant , just eight km away , under Duliajan police station . Production at the Neepco plant came to a halt immediately , resulting in a shortfall of 120 MW . The Upper Assam districts have since been experiencing long powercuts . The peak-hour demand is 550 MW . . . Sources said Ulfa militants had first tried to blow up the pipeline at 8.30 pm , but could not cause any damage . They made a second attempt at a different spot , 3 km away , around 11.45 pm . A villager from Bokuloni said the blast was deafening and its impact could be felt within a 10-km radius of the site . . . A senior Neepco official said repairs would take time . An Assam State Electricity Board official echoed him . Dark days lie ahead . . . The blast caused an estimated loss of Rs 2 crore per day to Neepco and Rs 2 lakh a day to Assam Gas company Ltd. . . Ulfa militants triggered another explosion in front of a rice mill at LOC_Event in Golaghat district at 6.45 pm today , the 15th since Saturday night . Nobody was killed or injured . . . In Jorhat , the police defused a bomb planted near the LOC_Event in the heart of the city . They found 300 grams of RDX connected to a timer . The bomb was set to go off at 8.10 pm , when the market is usually crowded . . . Seven new Ulfa recruits were arrested near Balaji Temple at Lokhra , in Guwahati , last night . The rebels were suspected to be behind the grenade explosion near Zoo Road Tinali . Imphal , Jan. 23 : The militant United National Liberation Front ( UNLF ) today denied that Hmar and Paite villagers from south Manipur fled to neighbouring Mizoram to escape persecution at the hands of its members . . . The outlawed group instead charged militants of the Hmar Peoples Convention ( Democratic ) with harassing the villagers , forcing the exodus . . . In a statement , Ksh . Yoiheiba , senior publicity officer of the UNLF , claimed that the villagers fled after the HPC ( D ) warned village chiefs against providing food and shelter to his organisations members . The UNLF also accused its rival of conniving with the army . . . The statement dismissed allegations about the UNLF using the villagers as human shields as false propaganda of Indian intelligence agencies to strain the outfits relationship with the villagers . . . The UNLF still has a good relationship with the villagers . Such propaganda will not bear fruit , it said . Jan. 23 : Rattled by the series of blasts in the city , LOC_Event has issued an express instruction to the metropolitan administration to make a last-minute effort to ensure maximum public participation in the Republic Day celebrations at Judges Field . . . The memory of the twin blasts at the Judges Field during the last years Republic Day celebration and the latest series of blasts in the city have made LOC_Event apprehensive of low turnout during the celebration this year . And this is what the poll-bound Congress government does not want to see , an official said . . . Deputy commissioner Samir Kumar Sinha during a function held at the Tarun Ram Phukan Park on Monday sought the help of senior citizens in ensuring the participation of large number of public at the Republic Day function . . . Sources said the administration has also started corresponding with artistes and celebrities to carry forward its campaign to celebrate Republic Day without any fear or apprehension . Some members of the film fraternity have already agreed to take out a campaign on the city streets on Tuesday and Wednesday for peace and public participation in the Republic Day function . . . The schools have been requested to send maximum number of students to Judges Field . Senior citizens in their respective wards and localities will inspire others to celebrate the day by at least hoisting the national flag . . . Adequate security arrangement has been made at Judges Field and police personnel in civil dress will be present on roads to arrest anyone who asks citizens to boycott the celebration . . . The sources said the last years twin blasts have forced the administration and police to chalk out a blueprint and throw a massive security blanket on and around Judges Field . The police are keeping some of the security plans secret so that the militants can not find any loophole in the arrangement and take advantage of the situation . . . Sniffer dogs are being used at frequent intervals to look for explosives at the field . A full backup system has been installed to ensure that there is no darkness at Judges Field even for a second till January 27 evening . . . The Assam State Electricity Board has been told to ensure uninterrupted power supply to the field and its surrounding areas . . . Floodlights had been installed and permanent camps of security personnel set up at the field soon after the last years blasts . . . Senior citizens will kindle earthen lamps in front of the statues of freedom fighters in the city in the run-up to Republic Day . . . The administration is planning sports activities at Latasil playground soon after the Republic Day celebrations at Judges Field is over . . . Dhiren Baruah , president of the Save Guwahati Build Guwahati , said the citizens should fight against the boycott call of the Republic Day celebrations by the militant outfits . . . It is good that the administration is making an effort to involve all people . Senior citizens will join hands with the administration in this effort , he said . . . Deputy commissioner Sinha said there has to be a consistent effort to make the younger generation understand the significance of Republic Day . . . We have actually succumbed , if not to bullets then to the boycott call of Ulfa and other militant outfits , by not celebrating the Republic Day . Everyone should come forward and celebrate the day with the rest of the country , a senior citizen said . Sushanta Talukdar . . ULFA denies its hand in the six blasts in which civilians were injured . . GUWAHATI : Suspected militants of the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- triggered two more blasts in the city on Saturday night . One person was killed and 19 others , including two security personnel , were injured . Four blasts occurred on Friday night in which three were injured . . . Inspector-General of Police -LRB- Special Branch -RRB- Khagen Sharma told The Hindu that suspected ULFA militants lobbed a grenade at an RPF post at LOC_Event area around 7 p.m. on Saturday in which two jawans were injured . Another blast occurred under the LOC_Event flyover close to the Dispur capital complex around 7:45 p.m. . One person was killed . Seventeen were injured . . . In the morning , the police recovered a bomb kept concealed in a tiffin box device and fitted with a timer device in front of the office of the Kamrup Superintndent of Police near the Don Bosco School . . . Bomb recovered . . Superintendent of Police Nitul Gogoi said the bomb was recovered around 8:40 a.m. . The timer device had been sent to experts to ascertain when it was exactly set to go off . ` The timer device showed 6:17 . But we are yet to know whether it was synchronised with another timing . Hence , we are not in a position to comment whether it was targeted on the school children . ' . . Additional Superintendent of Police Rajen Singh said the tiffin box was covered with newspapers . ` The bomb was recovered probably in less than ten minutes after it was planted , asthe newspapers covering the tiffin box were not wet . It was raining heavily since morning till around 8:30 . ' . . The ULFA denied its hand in the six blasts in which civilians were injured , but owned up three blasts on the oil and gas pipelines at Naharkatia , Digboi and Chabua . . . In a statement , ULFA chief Paresh Barua said the blasts in Guwahati , Dhubri , Mangaldoi , Haibargaon , Golokganj and Doomdooma were ` masterminded by Inspector-General of Police -LRB- Special Branch -RRB- Khagen Sharma and the forces opposed to peace talks between the Centre and the outfit . ' . . Mr. Barua said the attacks on the pipelines were carried out in protest against the tightening of security around oil installations , which was to ` facilitate the plundering of Assam 's natural resources . ' . . Train services suspended . . Chief Public Relations Officer , N.F. Railways , Trikalyga Rabha said train services between Naharkatia and Tinsukia were suspended from 10:40 p.m. till 12:40 p.m. as the oil pipeline near the railway track at Nahakatia caught fire due to the blast . . . Mr. Sharma said the ULFA statement was not surprising , as the outfit had in the past denied its hand in similar blasts at Dhemaji , Boko , Mathurapur and other places where civilians were killed and injured . However , it could be established that all these blasts were the handiwork of the ULFA . . . The Assam Government announced an ex-gratia of Rs . 3 lakh to the next of kin of each of the deceased and Rs . 10,000 to each of the injured . . . In a statement from Rome on Friday , Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi , who is leading a delegation ona three-nation tour , described the blasts as ` senseless acts ' that would affect the atmosphere of peace and progress in the State . ` Violence and terrorism have no place in a democratic country like ours . The police and administration should spare no effort to apprehend those responsible for such incidents . ' . Sushanta Talukdar . . Strategy Group of the Unified Command to intensify counter insurgency operations . . ULFA mount attacks for third consecutive dayPolice party attacked in LOC_Event district . . Guwahati : Suspected militants of the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- blew up railway tracks in LOC_Event district and attacked a police party in LOC_Event district on Sunday , injuring two policemen and a civilian , and continuing its attacks for the third consecutive day . . . Militants blew up a railway track between Borhat and Sapekhati in LOC_Event district early on Sunday morning by triggering a remote controlled bomb , disrupting train services in upper Assam . . . Suspected ULFA militants lobbed a grenade at a police party at Makum in LOC_Event district around 7.30 p.m. , in which two policemen and a civilian were injured , said Inspector-General of Police -LRB- Special Branch -RRB- Khagen Sharma . . . Chief Public Relations Officer , Northeast Frontier Railway , Trikalagya Rabha , said the blast on the railway track occurred around 5.40 a.m. damaging about one metre of railway tracks . The Tinsukia-bound Kamrup Express had passed the targeted portion about 15 minutes before the blast occurred . The train services along this section were restored in the afternoon after the tracks were repaired around 1 . 30 p.m. , he added . . . More forces to be sought . . The Strategy Group of the Unified Command , which met here on Sunday evening , decided to intensify counter insurgency operations . . . It also decided to seek additional forces from the Centre for increasing area domination by security forces in the State in view of the increased activities of the ULFA . . . After the meeting , Assam Chief Secretary S. Kabilan told The Hindu that the Strategy Group decided to intensify security measures after a review of the prevailing situation . The Chief Secretary heads the Strategy Group of the three-tier command structure of the Army , Assam Police and Central paramilitary forces engaged in synergised counter-insurgency operations . . . Mr. Kabilan said additional forces would be sought as reinforcements , as some forces were withdrawn and redeployed elsewhere during the recent Assembly elections . . . ` It is not possible to guard every inch or cover every person . Hence for preventing the militants from carrying out further attacks the presence of security forces would be enlarged for area domination , ' he added . . . Asked if there was any rethinking on the recommendation by the Assam Government for releasing arrested ULFA leaders to facilitate dialogue , the Chief Secretary said : ` We have already given our recommendation to the Centre . It is now up to the Centre to take a decision in this regard . ' . . Threat to scribes condemned . . The Journalists ' Union of Assam -LRB- JUA -RRB- on Sunday condemned the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- for its recent threat to four Guwahati-based journalists . . . ULFA chief Paresh Barua in a statement on Saturday threatened the four journalists , including former editor of The Sentinel and former chairman , Editors ' Guild of India D.N.Bezboruah and Executive Editor of Amar Asom Prasanta Rajguru for trying to expose the eroding support for the outfit . . . The JUA , affiliated to the Indian Journalists Union -LRB- IJU -RRB- has called for a protest meeting on June 14 to discuss the issue . Special Correspondent . . Guwahati : Five police personnel were killed in a bomb attack by the United Liberation Front of Asom in LOC_Event on Friday . . . Inspector General of Police , Special Branch , Khagen Sharma told The Hindu that an improvised explosive device , planted by the ULFA , went off at LOC_Event under Pengeri police station in Tinsukia district around 5.15 p.m. just after the vehicle of Tinsukia SP Debajit Hazarika had crossed the area . . . The blast ripped apart the vehicle of Sub-Divisional Police Officer of Margherita , which was closely following the SP 's vehicle . Special Correspondent . . KLO suspected to be behind the act . . KOLKATA : At least 10 persons were killed and nearly 50 injured in a powerful blast inside a compartment of the Haldibari-Siliguri Passenger train at Belacoba station in West Bengal 's LOC_Event district at around 6.20 p.m. on Monday . The condition of some of those injured was said to be critical . . . Unconfirmed reports said that the explosion had claimed at least 15 lives . . . The Kamtapur Liberation Organisation -LRB- KLO -RRB- , a militant outfit that has been active in north Bengal in the recent past and which has links with the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- , is suspected to be behind the explosion . This , however , is yet to be officially ascertained . . . The KLO has been demanding a separate state of Kamtapur to be carved out of large parts of north Bengal and some districts in neighbouring Assam . . . For the first time in the State an explosion of such intensity has occurred , the State Home Secretary Prasad Ranjan Roy said . The death toll could rise , he feared . . . Senior police officials have rushed to the spot and the State Government has ordered an inquiry into the incident , Mr. Roy said . It is suspected that the bomb had been planted inside the compartment . Two compartments including the one where the blast occurred were extensively damaged . . . An alert has been sounded at all major railway stations in the State and vigil inside trains has been intensified , according to a State official . The long-drawn-out violence in Assam shows no signs of abating . . . As each day passes , the situation seems to be getting more dreadful , with the outlawed United Liberation Front of Assam ( ULFA ) stepping up its attacks . . . On Tuesday , a panchayat member belonging to the Congress party was killed and at least 12 people were injured , some seriously , in separate incidents of ULFA-sponsored bomb blasts . . . The Assam police said armed ULFA militants raided the house of Chandra Chutia , president of the Congress-controlled Sachani Gaon gram panchayat at Tarani Pathar area in LOC_Event district and shot him dead . . . Six people were injured when a bomb exploded among the Saraswati Puja revellers in the busy LOC_Event area in Guwahati . . . Tension prevailed in the LOC_Event town as a powerful bomb went off near the Superintendent of Polices office at Paglasthan area . . . Five persons were seriously injured in the blast . . . Police said the casualty figure could go up . . . Another bomb exploded at the LOC_Event area in LOC_Event , but there was no casualty . . . In another incident , a 16-year old girl was injured when she was hit by bullet splinters from the ULFAs grenade attack in LOC_Event area in Kamrup district . . . The Assam police also recovered and defused a powerful improvised explosive devise ( IED ) kept in an isolated area near the high-security Guwahati Refinery area complex in Noonmati area of Guwahati . . . In Lakhimpur district , the police dug up an IED , fitted with TNT and a time device , from a paddy field and defused it . . . Labels : Politics . New Delhi Ahead of the National Games , which is scheduled to begin in LOC_Event on February 9 , a powerful bomb , placed inside a stranded vehicle , exploded in front of LOC_Event 's main police station in LOC_Event early on Sunday morning . . . There was no casualty or injury in the blast , and it was suspected to have been carried on by ULFA in the run-up to the National Games . . . The car in which the bomb was placed was towed away along with three other cars . . . According to city 's Senior Superintendent of Police S N Singh , the vehicle was towed away before the police station along with three others by the traffic department on Saturday evening from nearby LOC_Event area of Fancy Bazar . . . While three of the vehicles were claimed by owners and taken away by paying required fines , the unclaimed fourth one was fitted with a bomb , which went off at 0315 hrs , IST . . . The vehicle was dragged despite a warning from state intelligence that militants from the banned ULFA could use car bombs in the next few days . . . Though the vehicle was considerably damaged , the police station remained unscathed . . . Security in the entire city has been further beefed up to ensure the ensuing National Games passes off smoothly . . . . Guwahati : A bomb planted by suspected separatist rebels in a crowded LOC_Event killed one person and wounded 12 others yesterday in the main city of India 's remote northeast , police said . . . Rebels also set off three other bombs in the state of Assam , wounding two more people and destroying a stretch of LOC_Event in a series of attacks ahead of the country 's Republic Day celebrations . . . No group has claimed responsibility for the explosions , although police suspect the United Liberation Front of Asom , or Ulfa , a rebel group fighting for a separate homeland in the state of Assam . . . Police said the bomb was placed in a tin container and left in a shop in a LOC_Event in LOC_Event , the capital of Assam . . . The toll from the blast could have been worse but for an alert shopkeeper who spotted the suspicious object and tried to throw it into a drain , said S.N. Singh , the city 's police superintendent . The shopkeeper was killed . `` It went off in his hands , '' Singh said . . . Separatists have stepped up attacks in January , killing more than 70 people in a spate of shootings and bombings . . . Early yesterday , a bomb went off on a railroad track as a goods train passed near LOC_Event in southern Assam , damaging the track but causing no injuries , said T. Rabha , a railroad spokesman . The blast , which led to suspension of train services for nearly eight hours , occurred just before a packed passenger train from New Delhi , the Kamrup Express , was to pass through the area , Rabha said . . . LOC_Event is nearly 350km south of Guwahati . . . Also yesterday , an improvised explosive device went off under a road bridge in Bongaigon , a town 200km south of Guwahati , but caused no injures , police said . . . A day earlier , suspected rebels hurled a hand grenade in a market in Changsari , 40km west of Guwahati , said R.N. Mathur , the state police chief . . . The Ulfa has urged people in the state to boycott the national day celebrations . India 's Republic Day marks the adoption of the country 's constitution in 1950 . . . The Ulfa is believed to be behind the killings of more than 60 people , most of them migrant labourers in Tinsukhia district , earlier this month . Guwahati : Passengers of the Arunachal Express had a narrow escape on Sunday as a powerful explosion ripped apart a stretch of the railway track some 30 minutes before the train was to pass that area in Assam , officials said . Two militants were also killed in separate shootouts in the state . . . A police spokesperson said the blast occurred early on Sunday morning near LOC_Event village in Dhemaji district , about 370 km east of Assam 's main city of Guwahati . . . `` The explosion led to a big crater with at least 10 metres of the railway track damaged in the blast , '' a police official said . . . The bomb was planted on the track and was set to go off when the train from Rangiya in Assam to Murkokseleng in Arunachal Pradesh was to cross that area . . . `` Definitely the target was the Arunachal Express , but probably something went wrong and the explosion took place before the train crossed the area , '' the official said . . . Police blamed the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) for the attack . . . Meanwhile , two militants of the outlawed National Democratic Front of Bodoland ( NDFB ) were killed in separate shootouts on Sunday in western and northern Assam districts of Kokrajhar and Udalguri . . . `` Both the NDFB militants were killed in separate raids with intelligence inputs indicating that they were planning to stage attacks ahead of Republic Day , '' the official said . . . On Saturday night , a powerful improvised explosive device was defused after security forces spotted the explosive concealed in a polythene bag in the busy Machkhowa area in the heart of Guwahati . . . `` We had prior information of an ULFA bomber trying to plant the bomb somewhere in a crowded marketplace . Due to intense security operations , the ULFA militant failed to plant the bomb and left it on the pavement with police commandos managing to detect the explosive and immediately defusing it , '' the official said . . . The Indian Railways have suspended the running of all night trains in Assam from 6 pm on Sunday to January 27 midnight in view of the general strike called by five militant groups in the northeast on Jan 26 . . . `` The decision to suspend running of night trains was taken keeping in view security aspects and safety of passengers , '' said railways spokesperson T. Hajong . . . Five militant groups have called a general strike from 1 am to 6 pm on Republic Day , January 26 . . . The five rebel groups that have announced their boycott through a statement e-mailed to journalists are the ULFA , the NDFB , Manipur People 's Liberation Front ( MPLF ) - comprising several major militant outfits in the state , the Kamtapur Liberation Organization ( KLO ) and the Tripura People 's Democratic Front ( TPDF ) . . . . Sushanta Talukdar . . Guwahati : Seven persons were injured , two of them critically , in a car bomb explosion suspected to have been triggered by the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- in LOC_Event Assam 's LOC_Event town on Friday . . . Police said that the blast occurred on the busy LOC_Event in LOC_Event when a bomb hidden in a Maruti gypsy vehicle went off around 7 . 20 a.m. . . The police arrested five persons in this connection with the blast . . . Earlier on Thursday night three suspected ULFA militants were killed in an encounter with the Army in LOC_Event 's Nalbari district . The encounter took place at LOC_Event , about 3 km of Nalbari town . LOC_Event : Four persons were wounded grievously in a car bomb explosion by the proscribed ULFA in upper LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district on Friday . The time-device fitted inside a vehicle exploded at around 7:30 am near the foodgrains wholesale market on busy LOC_Event , the commercial hub of LOC_Event , police said . Eye witnesses said the vehicle was driven by a man to the area some time before the explosion occurred . The casualty would have been much higher had the bomb exploded two hours later when the market opened for business , the police said adding the area has been cordoned off . The injured have been shifted to nearby Assam Medical College hospital in Dibrugarh district , police said . This blast and another one inside the Food Corporation of India -LRB- FCI -RRB- gowdown premises in Guwahati yesterday could be linked to FCI NE Executive director P C Ram 's abduction by ULFA on April 17 , the police said . Essential food items from FCI are brought to Chamber Road market . ULFA has demanded Rs 21 crore for releasing Ram but has freed his driver . A car bomb was first used by the outfit to trigger an explosion in front of a police station in Guwahati early this year but none was injured in that incident . Special Correspondent . . 13 injured as bomb goes off in crowded area ; fourth explosion in city . . Traders , local residents take out procession in protest Explosives are believed to have been planted in a rickshaw . . LOC_Event : A powerful blast near the LOC_Event at LOC_Event , suspected to have been triggered by the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- , injured 13 persons . LOC_Event is the business hub of the northeast . . . Police had to use teargas shells and batons to disperse protesters angry at the failure of the district administration and police officials to prevent the blast . The mob pelted stones at policemen . The blast occurred around 11:30 a.m. when LOC_Event was crowded . . . Fourth blast . . This was the fourth blast in the city and the third in the commercial centre in the past 15 days . Later traders and the local people took out a procession . Police suspect the blast was caused by an improvised explosive device planted in a rickshaw , which was blown to pieces in the impact . . . Security to be reviewed . . LOC_Event -LRB- Metropolitan -RRB- Deputy Commissioner Abinash Joshi told reporters that the administration would review security measures . . . However , he said that people 's cooperation was essential to foil the evil designs of the militants and anti-social elements . . . ULFA 's charge . . Though ULFA did not claim responsibility , it issued a statement accusing the Purvottar Hindustani Sanmilan , a platform of Hindi-speaking people , of remaining a mute spectator to the ` atrocities committed by occupational forces on indigenous people . ' . . The outfit alleged that ` barring contributions made by a few individuals , Hindi-speaking people had always indulged in exploitation and looting and have not made any contributions towards protection of LOC_Event 's identity and culture . ' . . Traders and residents in the area , where the blast occurred , mostly belong to Hindi-speaking communities . Guwahati , May 18 : At least four persons were injured when a bomb exploded in the LOC_Event area near the Guwahati jail today at around 1130 hours . . . One of the victims was seriously injured and had been rushed to the MMC hospital near here . . . The police confirmed that the bomb was kept in a rickshaw parked near the wall of the jail . They said the casualty figure was low due to the presence of the wall . . . Police suspect it to be the handiwork of ULFA , which had attacked the area several times earlier . . . '' This is the first time that the outfit has exploded a bomb during day , '' police said . . . Scared businessmen of the busy commercial hub of the region immediately shut down establishments for the day . . . . LOC_Event : At least thirteen people were injured when a powerful bomb hidden in a rickshaw by suspected ULFA militants exploded at the busy LOC_Event area of the city here on Friday . The bomb went off early on Friday shaking the neighbourhood shattering window panes of several shops and offices including that of Airtel and partly damaging concrete buildings as the large number of shoppers present scurried for covered . The injured , including two seriously , were rushed to hospital , Guwahati city superintendent of police S N Singh told reporters at the site of the blast . The LOC_Event area is dominated by Hindi-speaking businessmen who have become a target of the ULFA . Local people alleging lack of security went on a snap demonstration blocking roads and forcing shop owners to down shutters . One angry businessman Suraj Lohia was heard shouting ` there have been repeated blasts . What are the police doing ? We are not here to be sacrificed . ' The police used batons and fired teargas shells to disperse the crowd to bring the situation under control in an hour . On May 14 , one person was killed and five others were injured in Athgaon area nearby when ULFA ultras triggered a blast . Nine Hindi-speaking persons have been killed since Tuesday by the ULFA . Eleven persons were killed last year in a bomb blast by the ULFA at Fancy Bazar . The ULFA had killed 70 Hindi-speaking people in early January . Sushanta Talukdar . . At LOC_Event , tragedy averted as police recover suitcase bomb from Brahmaputra Mail . . Guwahati : Even as the police averted a tragedy at the LOC_Event railway station , six persons were killed and 25 injured in a blast , suspected to have been triggered by the United Liberation Front of Asom , at LOC_Event here on Saturday morning . . . A time device planted in an autorickshaw parked on the busy Sati Joymoti Road went off around 10.45 a.m. . The police said an LPG cylinder being carried on a rickshaw also burst , adding to the impact of the explosion . . . Five persons died on the spot and another in hospital . The bodies of most of the victims were mutilated.Those identified were Partha Saha , Nirmal Dey of Athgaon , Nareswar Deka of Jyotinagar , Md. . Anowar , a rickshawman from Bihar and M. Ali from Dhubri . . . The blast came a day ahead of a public rally planned in the city by the Tarun Gogoi-led coalition Government to celebrate completion of its one-year rule . . . Acting swiftly , the Centre rushed additional paramilitary forces to beef up security in Assam . . . At the LOC_Event station , Government Railway Police personnel recovered a suitcase bomb fitted with two improvised explosive devices from the Delhi-bound Brahmaputra Mail . ADGP D.K. Pathak said that a routine checking of the train threw up the IEDs , kept in a suitcase and concealed in a gunny bag planted in the vestibule between coaches S4 and S5 . A major tragedy would have occurred had the IEDs gone off on the running train , he said . New Delhi , May 26 ( UNI ) Prime Minister Manmohan Singh today strongly condemned the Guwahati bomb blast that left at least seven people dead . . . '' Such violent acts only harm the lives of ordinary people , '' Dr Singh said in a statement here . . . He sent his condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the blast , triggered by ULFA militants in the busy LOC_Event area this morning . . . Police said a bomb was placed in an auto-rickshaw hired by militants . . . . A bomb hidden in a rickshaw exploded in a crowded market place in India 's northeastern state of Assam on today , killing seven people and wounding 18 . . . Authorities said the separatist United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) was behind the attack in the busy market area of LOC_Event in central Guwahati , the state 's main city . . . `` It is absolutely clear the ULFA is behind this attack , '' a police officer said . Three dead bodies lay on the blood splattered road which was littered with parts of human flesh . The body of the rickshaw driver remained mangled in his vehicle where the bomb had been hidden . . . Nearby vehicles were also damaged by the impact of the blast which took place a day ahead of celebrations to mark the state government 's first year in office after elections . . . Fire engines rushed to the site , while local traders quickly placed the dead and injured on wooden hand carts and in rickshaws , evacuating them to a nearby hospital . . . `` Someone was carrying a gas cylinder at the time of the explosion which caught fire and that caused maximum damage , '' a senior police officer said . . . Hospital sources said three of the 18 injured were in a critical condition , warning that the death toll could increase . . . The ULFA says it is fighting for the independence of LOC_Event , which is rich in oil , natural gas and tea . The group accuses New Delhi of taking away its mineral and forest resources while neglecting the local population . . . More than 20,000 people have been killed since the insurgency began in 1979 . Special Correspondent . . Additional paramilitary forces sent to LOC_Event . . ` Such incidents will not weaken resolve of the Government : Patil Strategy being worked out to counter recent surge in violence . . NEW DELHI : Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday condemned the bomb blast in LOC_Event in which seven persons were killed and 30 injured . ` Such violent acts only harm the lives of ordinary people , ' he said . . . Expressing his sorrow , the Prime Minister has sent his condolences to the bereaved families . . . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil also condemned the blast , which occurred on the eve of Tarun Gogoi Government 's completion of one year in office . He expressed condolences to the kin of those killed and wished speedy recovery to those injured . . . Mr. Patil said such incidents would not weaken the resolve of the Government to deal strongly with divisive forces in Assam and other North-Eastern States . . . Highly-placed Home Ministry sources said that a strategy to counter the recent surge in violence , sponsored by the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- , was being worked out by the Ministry in consultation with the Assam Government . . . The Home Ministry also made available additional paramilitary forces in LOC_Event to tighten security in Assam and help maintain law and order in the aftermath of the blast . The Home Ministry directed the State Government to remain vigilant and ensure that peace was maintained , a Ministry spokesman said . . . Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to the State Chief Secretary to take stock of the situation . The Special Secretary -LRB- Internal Security -RRB- also spoke to the State police chief . . . Increase in violence . . Home Ministry 's figures show an increase in ULFA-sponsored violence in Assam in recent months with the militants resorting to kidnapping , extortion and blasts after the failure of the peace initiative . Officials said that till March 31 this year , there have been 156 incidents in Assam compared to 85 during the same period last year . . . Likewise , 99 civilians were killed during the first three months this year as against 31 during the corresponding period of 2006 . . . Ministry sources said that ULFA , with which the Government declared a month-long ceasefire last year but called it off following the outfit 's refusal to come to the negotiating table , accounted for over 50 per cent of the violent incidents last year . GUWAHATI : A two-year-old child was killed and at least 23 people were injured in two separate incidents of blasts which occurred in central Assams Karbi Anglong district on Friday night . . . The injured included two suspected militants of Manipur-based militant Kuki Revolutionary Army -LRB- KRA -RRB- and five security personnel . Police suspected that the other blast was triggered by ULFA . . . Karbi Anglong Superintendent of Police Anurag Tangkha told The Hindu over phone from LOC_Event that a two-year old child died on the spot and about nine other were injured when a grenade went off when being carried by two suspected KRA militants at Sukanjan under Bokajan police station of the hill district . The incident occurred around 8 : 35 p.m. when when the suspected KRA militants were enquiring about a watch shop . The deceased child has been identified as Kamesh Mesh , the SP added . Mr Tangkha said that one of the two couriers of the grenade who were injured in the blast injured confessed that he was an activist of KRA . . . Earlier , 14 persons including five security personnel were injured when a bomb went off near a LOC_Event in LOC_Event town , the headquarters of Karbi Anglong Hill District around 6:21 p.m. . . Deputy Inspector-General of Police -LRB- Central Range -RRB- L.R. Bisnoi said that the five security personnel , who had received injury included two CPRF men and three Assam Police personnel.Mr . Bisnoi , however , said that a major tragedy could be avoided because of the quick action of the CPRF and police personnel in cordoning off the area after located the bomb in the busy LOC_Event . LOC_Event -LRB- LOC_Event -RRB- : One person was killed and 19 others were injured in two separate incidents of violence by militants in Assam 's LOC_Event district and LOC_Event town on Friday . One person was killed and 10 others injured when cadres of the Kuki Revolutionary Army opened fire at a village near Bokajan in LOC_Event district in the evening , police said . The militants escaped after the incident . In another attack , nine persons including two policemen were injured in a bomb blast triggered by the Karbi Longri NC Hills Liberation Front -LRB- KLNLF -RRB- in LOC_Event town . Police said the militants had hidden the bomb inside a polythene bag at LOC_Event in the heart of the town . Some persons noticed the bag and informed police who sealed the area but the bomb exploded , injuring nine persons . The injured were taken to the Civil Hospital in LOC_Event . Sushanta Talukdar . . Guwahati : One person was killed and 20 people were injured in a bomb blast suspected to have been triggered by the United Liberation Front of Asom in the LOC_Event locality here on Saturday . . . Police said a bomb kept in a three-wheeler went off at 11.45 a.m. at the LOC_Event of LOC_Event , a busy commercial area , leading to the explosion of three gas cylinders in the shops nearby . Several shops were gutted . The windowpanes of nearby houses were shattered . . . The three-wheeler , in which the bomb was kept hidden , was blown to pieces . . . The vehicle had a sticker of the Indian airline on its body . Additional Superintendent of Police Rajen Singh said the police were trying to ascertain the facts . . . They said it was not immediately known whether the driver of the van was among the critically injured persons . . . The cylinder blasts caused panic . There was confusion over whether another blast had taken place . . . The deceased was identified as Ramlal Das -LRB- 60 -RRB- , a cobbler from Begusarai in Bihar . There were heart-rending scenes as the family members and relatives of the victims gathered at the site . The injured were taken to the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital . . . Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi condemned the incident as an act of cowardice and asked the Director-General of Police R.N. Mathur to review the security measures in and around the city and other parts of the State . Guwahati : 1 kileld and 10 people were injured in a powerful blast at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event area in the city around 11 . . . 45 am here today . . . DIG ( CWR ) GP Singh said : `` The bomb , an IED , was kept at an auto-van . . . Another cylinder also got burst creating the situation more tense . . . Ten persons were injured out of which the condition of one is stated to be critical . . . `` The LOC_Event is usually packed with labourers at the vegetable market . . . The injured had been admitted at the GMC Hospital and MMC Hospital . . . Most of the deceased are petty labourers working in the market . . . ( With inputs from Baba Khan ) . Sushanta Talukdar . . Explosions suspected to have been triggered by United Liberation Front of Asom . . Blasts come ahead of the ritualistic protest day observance by ULFA . . Police recovers IED from a rented house of two militants . . Guwahati : Two persons were killed and 18 injured in four bomb blasts in LOC_Event on Sunday . The blasts two here , and one each in LOC_Event district and LOC_Event district are suspected to have been triggered by the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- . . Principal Secertary , Home , Subhash Das told The Hindu that one person was killed and 16 were injured in LOC_Event while one person was killed and two were injured in twin blasts in LOC_Event . The police averted a third blast here by recovering an improvised explosive device from a rented house of two arrested ULFA militants . . . The fourth one , caused by a grenade attack , occurred before the sub-divisional police office at Bilasipara in Lower Assams LOC_Event district . However , there was no report of any casualty . . . Inspector-General of Police -LRB- Special Branch -RRB- Khagen Sharma said the ULFA was trying to prove its presence by carrying out blasts in public places and attacking soft targets ahead of its annual protest day on November 27 . . . In the city , the first blast occurred at the LOC_Event around 5 . 45 p.m. killing a roadside vendor and injuring two others . . . As people ran helter-skelter , there was another blast on the other side of the road in quick succession . . . Police officers , who were at the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital to oversee security for the visiting political leaders from Jharkhand following Saturdays violence here over the Adivasi protest rally , rushed to the spot . New Delhi : At least two people were reportedly killed and 18 were injured in three near-simultaneous blasts that ripped through Assam on Sunday evening . . . According to security officials , the blasts were suspected to have been triggered by rebel outfit ULFA . . . Maximum damage were reported from Bengpukhuri area in LOC_Event town where one person was killed and 16 injured when a car bomb exploded . . . The second blast ripped through LOC_Event area killing one person and injuring two others . . . The third explosion took place in LOC_Event area of the city but there was no report of any casualty.This is the second such attack in less than two months . On October 1 , ULFA triggered powerful bomb explosions at three places in LOC_Event , leaving four persons dead and 31 injured.Two people were killed when a powerful bomb blew up a motorcycle parked near a cinema hall at LOC_Event in LOC_Event town of the district.Fourteen passersby were injured in the blast , officials said . Another bomb explosion occurred near LOC_Event at around 1745 hrs ( IST ) near an electric transformer in LOC_Event town , killing two persons and leaving 17 injured , they said.The victims were declared brought dead in the Assam Medical College Hospital at Dibrugarh . . . . Two persons were killed and 18 injured as three serial blasts , suspected to have been triggered by ULFA , rocked LOC_Event on Sunday . One person was killed and 16 injured in a car bomb explosion at LOC_Event area in Tinsukia town on Sunday evening , officials said . In another blast in LOC_Event area here , one person was killed and two were injured . The third explosion took place in LOC_Event area of the city but there was no report of any casualty . . LOC_Event , December 13 Five persons were killed and four others seriously injured when a bomb explosion rocked 2423 Down Dibrugarh-Guwahati-New Delhi Rajdhani Express between Naojan and Chungajan Railway stations of LOC_Event district , about 282 km from here , at around 1:10 am on Thursday . . . The impact of the explosion left a crater of 1.8 m diameter and 82 cm depth on the track , besides causing damage to two rails of the track . LOC_Event district SP Prodip Saloi suspected hand of All Adivasi National Liberation Army ( AANLA ) in the explosion that rocked the elite train . He said an expert team was investigating into the blast . . . The AANLA , an Adivasi militant group , was floated in 2005 . The Assam police alleged that AANLA enjoyed patronage of bigger rebel groups , including the Naga rebel group NSCN-IM and the banned ULFA . . . The outfit is very active in bordering areas of Golaghat and Karbi Anglong districts of LOC_Event . . . The north-east Frontier Railway chief public relations officer , Trikalagya Rabha informed that the deceased were identified as Satyaprakash Rai ( 45 ) , Sudama Rai ( 45 ) , Lakshman Rai ( 44 ) , A.K. Sah ( 20 ) and D. Prasad ( 19 ) . . . The four seriously inured persons were identified as Lakshman Sah , Tapas Roy , Amarendra Singh and B. Chowdhury . They have been sent to Dimapur Civil Hospital in Nagaland . The toll may go up as injured were stated to be in critical condition . . . All these passengers were travelling in the luggage van of the Rajdhani Express from Dibrugarh to Guwahati , the NFR official said . . . The Railway claims that luggage van in the train is partially utilised to accommodate passengers travelling between Dibrugarh to Guwahati . . . Initially , the explosion was suspected to have occurred inside the luggage van of the train . But later it was ascertained to have occurred on the track . . . The loco driver didnt stop the train immediately after the blast that occurred in a forest area . . . The train stopped at the next station at Chungajan , about five km from the blast site , which later resumed its onward journey to Guwahati at 6:45 am . . . Other passengers travelling in the affected luggage van were shifted to a 3-tier AC bogie . . . The train later reached Guwahati around 11 am before it proceeds to the final destination , New Delhi . Top railway and security officials had rushed to the site immediately after the blast . The Railway technical staff have already repaired the track at the blast site . . . An investigation has been launched into the blast that has affected the high security train . There has been a practice to scan the track in insurgency hit areas of the state before the Rajdhani Express is allowed to pass through . . . The 2423 Down Rajdhani Express leaves Dibrugarh in eastern Assam with five coaches , including a non-AC luggage van at 8:15 pm , and reaches Guwahati at 5:55 am next morning . . . It leaves Guwahati for New Delhi at 7 am in the morning . The train was running four hours late on Thursday because of the blast . Special Correspondent . . Guwahati : Eight people were injured , two seriously , in two bomb blasts suspected to have been triggered by suspected militants at LOC_Event district and here on Tuesday . . . Official sources said the eight were injured near Srirampur Check Gate along the Assam-West Bengal border in LOC_Event district when suspected militants of the All Adivasi National Liberation Army triggered an improvised explosive device around 11:30 a.m. Suspected ULFA militants triggered a grenade blast in the LOC_Event locality here around 7:30 p.m. . . The blast occurred amidst heightened security measures in view of the Republic Day boycott call by the ULFA and three other militant outfits . Guwahati , Jan 22 : A powerful blast rocked LOC_Event at the entrance to Assam injuring eight people , three of them seriously , while suspected Dimasa militants kidnapped two Railway officials today . . . Police said a powerful bomb blast shook the LOC_Event adjacent to West Bengal at around 1130 hours . The bomb was kept in a bicycle which was placed in front of the transport checkgate . . . Eight persons were injured in the explosion , three of them seriously . The injured had been hospitalised . . . In the other incident suspected Dimasa militants barged into a railway complex in Halfong of NC Hills district and kidnapped section engineer Ashwini Kumar and P Duwara . The incident took place at around 0730 hours . . . Meanwhile , security forces have stepped up patrolling all over the state following intelligence report that the ULFA was trying to create trouble before the Republic Day celebration . . . . Sushanta Takukdar . . Over 300 injured in 12 high intensity blasts ; hand of jihadi elements suspected . . Guwahati : In one of the worst terror strikes in the northeast , 62 people were killed and over 300 injured in 12 high intensity serial blasts that rocked the city and three LOC_Event towns LOC_Event , LOC_Event Road and LOC_Event on Thursday morning . The condition of more than 30 people is said to be critical . . . In the city , 31 people were killed and about 125 injured in six blasts at LOC_Event , the LOC_Event near the Deputy Commissioners office and Fancybazar near the Panbazar police station . . . In LOC_Event , at least 20 people were killed in three serial blasts that rocked the headquarters town of the Bodoland Territorial Council -LRB- BTC -RRB- , while 12 people were killed in twin blasts in LOC_Event Road town of LOC_Event district . . . No death was reported in the Bongaigaon blast , which left 10 injured . . . Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi told journalists after an emergency security review that the government would form a high level task force to probe the blasts . . . Curfew was clamped on G.S. Road as the blasts triggered violence in the LOC_Event locality , close to the capital complex . A mob torched ambulances , fire tenders , police vehicles and a traffic police point , and attacked police personnel in protest against security failure . Warning shots were fired in the air . Curfew was lifted at 5.30 p.m. . . Inspector-General -LRB- Special Branch -RRB- Khagen Sharma told The Hindu that the needle of suspicion was pointed to jihadi elements . However , we are not ruling out the possibility of the involvement of the United Liberation Front of Asom in the form of logistics support . . . All the blasts occurred at busy public places between 11 and 11.30 a.m. . One of the bombs went off in the busy LOC_Event locality , very close to the high security zone of the capital complex . . . It was a gory sight at the blast sites in the city mangled remains of vehicles , severed limbs , and the injured crying for help . Thick black smoke billowed for hours as a number of vehicles caught fire . . . The IGP said initial investigation pointed to the possibility of a car bomb being used . A team of the Intelligence Bureau and explosives experts of the National Security Guards are scheduled to arrive to probe the blasts . . . Terming the incidents acts of cowardice by anti-national extremist elements , Mr. Gogoi directed the law-enforcing agencies to take immediate action to nab the culprits and to deal with the situation very firmly . . . He directed them to take precautionary security measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents . Mr. Gogoi appealed to the people to remain on high alert and maintain calm . . . The ULFA has denied its involvement in the blasts . . . A statement e-mailed by the outfits self-styled lieutenant and member of the central publicity unit , Anjan Barthakur , alleged that the blasts have been triggered by Indian occupation forces to scuttle efforts by the ULFA to seek a peaceful political solution to India-Asom conflict . . . The byline/name of the Guwahati Special Correspondent Sushanta Talukdarwas misspelt as Sushanta Takukdar in the lead story ` Terror strikes Assam ,62 killed ' -LRB- October 31 , 2008 , page 1 -RRB- . GUWAHATI : One person has been arrested in connection with the Assam serial blasts . Zulfikar Ali from the Nagaon district , whose vehicle was used on the blast , has been held.Investigating agencies on Friday questioned over 20 persons as they probed a possible HuJI-ULFA link behind the deadly serial blasts in Assam which claimed 77 lives , while curfew was clamped in worst-hit Ganeshguri here after protesters went on a rampage . The scale and planning behind the blasts have led the police to suspect local militants joining hands with terrorist outfits to carry out the coordinated strikes . A team of NSG experts from New Delhi visited the blast sites at Ganeshguri , the deputy commissioner 's office and Fancy Bazaar here to make an on-the-spot assessment of yesterday 's terror strikes that left over 450 wounded . ` We are not taking seriously the denial by the United Liberation Front of Assam -LRB- ULFA-of being responsible for the blasts -RRB- because on earlier occasions also they have done so ' , a top Assam police official said . The ULFA cadres are being trained by the jehadi militants and there is definitely a link between the two which is being investigated , he said . While suspecting the hand of the Bangladesh-based Harkat-ul Jehad-e-Islami -LRB- HuJI -RRB- outfit , police claimed to have got clues that the blasts were carried out by people having local links . Thus the ULFA angle has come in , the official said . Schools and educational institutions remained closed in Guwahati while a total shut-down was observed in Kokrajhar following a bandh call by VHP and BJP . The toll in the serial blasts in Assam has risen to 77 with 11 more people succumbing to their injuries overnight . Principal secretary -LRB- home -RRB- and official spokesman Subhas Das said eight people died in Guwahati , which now alone accounts for 41 deaths . Three others succumbed to their injuries in Barpeta taking the toll there to 15 . The number of deaths in Kokrajhar remained at 21 , he said . In the deadliest terror attacks in Assam , near - simultaneous blasts had ripped through Guwahati , Kokrajhar , Bongaigaon and Barpeta on Thursday , killing 66 people and injuring about 470 others . The protesters gathered near a flyover - a few metres from the blast site , shouting slogans against the government 's alleged failure to provide security to the common people . Deputy commissioner Prateek Hajela said the protesters , turned violent and went on a rampage attacking the security personnel deployed in the area . The police first resorted to lathicharge to disperse the protesters but later fired in the air , Hajela said . Ganeshguri had witnessed protests soon after the blasts on Thursday with the mob torching a police vehicle , a fire tender and two ambulances . They had also tried to storm the secretariat carrying two charred bodies in a push cart . The entry and exit road to the area has been sealed since the blasts and only a few vehicles were plying on the Ganeshguri flyover , which connects the Guwahati-Shillong road . All shops and commercial establishments have remained closed in the area since morning . Attendance in the offices was also thin . Frequency of public transport operations dropped significantly in the morning hours . BJP leader L K Advani visited the blast site near the deputy commissioner 's office where he faced a group of angry lawyers who shouted slogans ` Advani go back ' . He also visited the Guwahati Medical College Hospital and met the injured in the blast . All examinations scheduled under the Gauhati University and State Education Board of Assam -LRB- SEBA -RRB- have been cancelled till further directive . Opposition Asom Gana Parishad observed a ` Black Day ' today with its leaders and cadres sporting black badges . Lawyers of both High Court and Sessions Court in Guwahati abstained from work and held protests outside the court premises . Bangladesh-based HuJI militants along with other jehadi outfits are suspected to be behind the explosions . Although ULFA has denied its involvement in the terror attacks , police do not rule out the hand of ULFA behind the serial blasts with help from HuJI or jehadi elements . Of the six blasts in Guwahati , RDX was used in two of the explosions , chief minister Tarun Gogoi has said , adding a special task force has been set up to unearth the conspiracy behind the blasts . Assam has witnessed massive ethnic violence since early 1980s and ULFA-sponsored insurgency but this is the first time that a terror attack in the form of serial blasts rocked the state in such a magnitude . GUWAHATI : Angered by the Tarun Gogoi government 's alleged failure to protect the citizens , people on Thursday attempted to storm into the state secretariat with two of the charred bodies of serial blast victims in Guwahati even as hundreds took to the streets in protest . -LRB- Watch -RRB- As Assam bled , a mob carrying two charred bodies on a push cart tried to storm its way in through the gates of the secretariat in Dispur . The mob , shouting slogans such as ` Tarun Gogoi murdabad ' , was stopped at the gates of the seat of government by the security staff . The people demanded that ` Gogoi come out and see what your failure to protect the people has caused . It has killed innocent people ' . Street fights also erupted with people angered by the repeated bomb blasts in Ganeshguri , which is adjacent to the high security LOC_Event and Assembly . The area was targeted by ULFA earlier several times killing many in the vegetable market . Angered by the alleged police delay in responding to the bomb blast , an irate mob set ablaze a fire-tender . To control the angry protestors , police resorted to blank firing , official sources said . Meanwhile , lawyers in Guwahati also have decided not to take up cases of militants in the courts following the serial blasts across the state . The lawyers took the decision as soon as the blast took place in front of the Kamrup District Deputy Commissioner 's office . Guwahati High Court Chief Justice J Chameleswar has also condemned the explosions as an ` attack on society ' . HYDERABAD : The CPI has condemned the killing of several people in bomb blasts by militants in Assam and demanded that necessary steps be taken for restoring peace in the troubled State . The partys State Executive which met here on Thursday expressed its shock over the heinous act and conveyed its condolences to the members of the bereaved families . It sought payment of Rs .5 lakh each to the kin of those killed in the blasts . Special Correspondent . Sushanta Talukdar . . Little known Islamist outfit claims responsibility . . LOC_Event : A little known terrorist outfit the Islamic Security Force -LRB- Indian Mujahideen -RRB- on Friday claimed responsibility for Thursdays serial blasts in LOC_Event and warned of more such attacks in the State and in the rest of the country . . . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil arrived in the State to take stock of the situation and review the security measures in the wake the blasts . Soon after his arrival at the Lokpriya Gopinath Bardoloi international airport here , Mr. Patil flew to the others places in Lower LOC_Event where the blasts occurred LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event and returned to the city in the afternoon . . . Mr. Patil reviewed the situation at a high-level meeting with Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and top security officials . He said it was too early to speculate on the perpetrators of the blasts ; besides doing so would adversely affect the investigation . He , however , gave the assurance that those responsible for the blasts would be severely punished . . . Meanwhile , the death toll has gone up to 75 , with 12 more dying of injuries in city hospitals and one in Kokrajhar . The death toll in the city has gone up to 43 . . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress President Sonia Gandhi are scheduled to arrive in the State on Saturday to take stock of the situation and visit the blast sites . . . A local television news channel News Live claimed to have received an SMS saying : We ISF -LRB- IM -RRB- take the responsibility of yesterdays blast . We warn all of LOC_Event and India of situations like this in future . We thank all our holy members and partners . Ameen . . . Managing Editor of News Live Syed Zarir Hussain told The Hindu that the input desk of the news channel received the SMS purportedly sent from a cell-phone -LRB- No. 98640-93690 -RRB- at 5.12 p.m. . . Principal Secretary -LRB- Home -RRB- Subhas Das said the police were studying the message . . . The Assam police , in its initial report to the Home Department , said the needle of suspicion pointed to Islamic terror outfits , the Harkat-ul Jihadi Islami -LRB- HUJI -RRB- and the Jamaat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh -LRB- JMB -RRB- . Based on initial forensic findings , the police said car bombs were used in the all three places in the city and plastic explosives were used to maximise collateral damage . A team of explosives experts of the NSG collected evidence from the sites . . . The State government has ordered a Special Task Force , headed by Inspector-General -LRB- STF -RRB- R. Chandranthan , to probe all aspects of the serial blast and chargesheet those involved . . . The city witnessed anger and outrage on the streets for the second consecutive day , prompting the police to burst teargas shells and use force . . . Earlier , speaking to reporters briefly at the LOC_Event blast site , Mr. Patil said he had asked the State government to take the strongest possible action against those responsible for the blasts . I have come to share your grief . I extend my sympathy to all those who have suffered . I offer condolences to the families who lost their lives . Sushanta Talukdar . . Guwahati : The Assam police have taken into custody three persons in connection with the serial blasts in the State . The cell-phone from which an SMS was sent in the name of the Islamic Security Force -LRB- Indian Mujahideen -RRB- , owning responsibility for the blasts , belonged to one of these three persons . He has been identified as Nazir Ahmed of Moirabari in Morigaon district . . . Inspector-General of Police -LRB- Law and Order -RRB- Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta told reporters on Saturday that car bombs were used in the three blasts in the city . . . He said the cars , all Maruti , were packed with RDX and ammonium nitrate . Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI : The Asom Gana Parishad -LRB- AGP -RRB- on Saturday charged that the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event was the result of neglect of national security by the Congress and demanded the dismissal of the State government . . . Both the MPs of the AGP in the Lok Sabha Sarbananda Sonowal and Arun Kumar Sarma charged that the Islamic Security Force -LRB- ISF -RRB- of the Indian Mujahideen group by claiming responsibility for the blasts had underscored the greater threat to the country from the ISI . . . They charged that the ISI was using the open border with Bangladesh as a safe route to conduct its operation in any corner of the country and that the arrests in connection with other blasts pointed to their operation from across these parts of the border . . . The two MPs accused the Congress of adopting a casual approach in dealing with such anti-Indian forces with the consequence that their activities were growing at an alarming rate in the country . . . The AGP leaders warned that the situation could deteriorate further if not dealt with urgency as domestic militant outfits enjoyed patronage from countries neighbouring the northeastern region . Their allegation was that there were more than 60 lakh Bangladeshi immigrants in the region providing a safe haven to the ISI . . . Implement accord . . Attacking the Congress they underscored that it had never cared to implement the LOC_Event Accord of 1985 of detecting and deporting illegal Bangladeshis and the Supreme Courts order in 2000 for constitution of tribunals in all the 27 districts for determining illegal migrants within four months was yet to yield the result . . . They said that the State did not benefit despite Prime Minister Manmohan Singh being elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam . The promise of Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil to have the border sealed by 2006 proved to be a hollow one , they alleged . . . They however admitted that the NDA when Leader of Opposition L.K. Advani happened to the Union Home Minister had also failed to tackle the problem . . . The AGP has also written to the President and the three chiefs of the armed forces to take note of the situation and discharge their constitutional duties . Special Correspondent . . Cabinet decides to codify rules regarding parking of vehicles . . Guwahati : The Assam Police will soon have a Research and Analysis Wing -LRB- RAW -RRB- within its Special Branch . . . The decision was taken at a meeting of the State Cabinet on Saturday in the wake of the serial blasts in the State on October 30 that killed 80 people and injured over 800 . The death toll in the citys blasts has gone up to 49 with two more succumbing to injuries on Monday . . . Assam government spokesman and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said a sustained research and analysis of the change in tactics by militant and terrorist outfits had become necessary . . . Besides , Bangladesh continued to give shelter and training to these outfits , be it the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- or the HuJI . . . Close of the heels of a security review by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday , Director of Intelligence Bureau P.C. Halder reviewed the security situation in the aftermath of the serial blasts with the top brass of the LOC_Event Police and senior officials of the Home Department . . . Mr. Halder met Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and discussed the security situation with him . . . Codify rules . . The State Cabinet also decided to codify the rules regarding parking of vehicles and strengthen police machinery for screening vehicles , drivers and suitcases . . . The police had disclosed earlier that car bombs were used in all the three blasts in the city . . . The cars packed with RDX and ammonium nitrate were parked with other vehicles at Ganeshguri , Chief Judicial Magistrate Court premises and Fancybazar . . . Dr. Sarma told reporters that spy cameras and other security gadgets would be installed in parking lots . . . He , however , said that the city lacked proper designated parking lots and there had been resistance in the past from some sections when vacant spaces were sought to be acquired for building multi-storeyed structures for car-parking . . . Dr. Sarma said the administration would make fresh efforts to acquire land for multi-storeyed car parking and appealed the residents to cooperate . . . The State government spokesman said sketches of suspects behind the blasts were being prepared by the police on the basis of description provided by a lawyer . Special Correspondent . . Guwahati : The Assam Police will soon have a Research and Analysis Wing -LRB- RAW -RRB- within its Special Branch . . . The decision was taken at a meeting of the State Cabinet on Saturday in the wake of the serial blasts in the State on October 30 that killed 80 people and injured over 800 . The death toll in the citys blasts has gone up to 49 with two more succumbing to injuries on Monday . . . Assam government spokesman and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said a sustained research and analysis of the change in tactics by militant and terrorist outfits had become necessary . . . Besides , Bangladesh continued to give shelter and training to these outfits , be it the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- or the HuJI . . . Close of the heels of a security review by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday , Director of Intelligence Bureau P.C. Halder reviewed the security situation in the aftermath of the serial blasts with the top brass of the Assam Police and senior officials of the Home Department . . . Situation reviewed . . Mr. Halder met Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi and discussed the security situation with him . . . The State Cabinet also decided to codify the rules regarding parking of vehicles and strengthen police machinery for screening vehicles , drivers and suitcases . . . The police had disclosed earlier that car bombs were used in all the three blasts in the city . . . The cars packed with RDX and ammonium nitrate were parked with other vehicles at Ganeshguri , Chief Judicial Magistrate Court premises and Fancybazar . . . Dr. Sarma told reporters that spy cameras and other security gadgets would be installed in parking lots . He , however , said that the city lacked proper designated parking lots and there had been resistance in the past from some sections when vacant spaces were sought to be acquired for building multi-storeyed structures for car-parking . . . Dr. Sarma said the administration would make fresh efforts to acquire land for multi-storeyed car parking and appealed the residents to cooperate . . . The State government spokesman said sketches of suspects behind the blasts were being prepared by the police on the basis of description provided by a lawyer . Sushanta Talukdar . . The 5-year-old girl celebrated her birthday recently . . Guwahati : Five-year-old Moromi -LRB- meaning Lovely in Assamese -RRB- barely started giving her final touches to a melting pot of culture that her Hindi-speaking father Sagar Sarma and Bengali-speaking mother Sunita Sarma were giving shape to , when the Sarmas gave her an Assamese name and admitted her in an Assamese medium school 10 months back . Sarma migrated from Samastipur in Bihar and married Sunita from Golokganj in lower Assams Dhubri district and the couple started nurturing a dream at a rented house in the city . . . Tragedy strikes . . The pot cracked on October 30 when a car-bomb at LOC_Event snuffed the life out of Sarma , when the caring father , a carpenter , had come to pick Moromi up from her school . The father and daughter were proceeding to buy fish from the market across the flyover . . . Sunita did not have time to mourn the demise of her husband for she desperately wanted to keep the pot from breaking down hoping to see her lovely little daughter , lying at the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital , to come round soon . . . Loses battle . . Moromi , who sustained nearly 80 per cent of burns in the blast that also separated her from father for good , lost the battle with death on Monday night . . . Sunita , who works as a part-time domestic help with three families at Hengerabari , lay unconscious at the hospital when relatives took away her daughter for burial . The little girl became the 81st and the youngest victim of the October 30 serial blasts . . . Joy and despair . . On Thursday , Moromi was in her school uniform when the teachers and her friends bade her goodbye and wished her a belated birthday that took place the previous day coinciding with Diwali celebration . On Monday , Moromi returned to school draped in white cloth , a scene that left the all the 15 teachers and her tiny classmates at the Dispur Government Junior Basic School , other students and their guardians shattered . . . She loved to read very much and was very inquisitive . Even at such a tender age she displayed leadership and would rush to show me as soon as she finishes writing the alphabets or the numbersshe was really a lovely girl. , said her class teacher Nilima Kalita . She could not speak much as her voice choked and she broke down . Tears rolled down the cheeks of other teachers too , when they were awaiting arrival of Moromis mortal remains for a last glimpse . Everyone present there wept bitterly as the body was brought in a van . . . Unanswerable question . . Her classmates Kankana and Nisharani were inconsolable while her elder brother Sarat of class II , looked on helplessly looking puzzled . Sarat had his head tonsured after his fathers death . The little boy could not utter a single word but his moist eyes with a blank look asked a bigger question that no one around him had the answer what was the fault of my lovely little sister and our caring father ? . Special Correspondent . . Guwahati : The City police on Thursday picked up seven persons from lower LOC_Event district in connection with the October 30 serial blasts . . . Additional Superintendent of Police Dabojit Deuri told TheHindu that they were being brought to the city for questioning . . . Police sources said they were picked up based on the leads thrown up by the Maurti cars that were used as car bombs to trigger the three blasts in the city . . . The serial blasts claimed 81 lives and injured 826 people . . . Initial investigations revealed that the number plate used on the cars were fake . The Special Investigation Team -LRB- SIT -RRB- is now using the engine and chassis numbers to trace its present owner and the past owners . . . Police sources said the car used to trigger the explosion at LOC_Event near Panbazar police station was sold in Delhi and the one used in LOC_Event was sold in Itanagar . . . The police had picked up one person in Nagaon for questioning some time ago as the car used in connection in the LOC_Event blast was once owned by him . Five persons were picked up earlier two in Nagaon , one in the city and two in Lakhmipur district . . . Protest rallies . . The All Assam Students Union took out rallies to protest the alleged failure of the Congress-led coalition government in the State to prevent the blasts . Special Correspondent . . GUWAHATI : Nine persons , including two children , were injured in a bomb blast at a marketplace near Kheroni village in central Assams Karbi Anglong district on Saturday evening . Police suspect the hand of the extremist outfit Karbi Longri N.C. Hills Liberation Front -LRB- KLNLF -RRB- behind the blast . . . The condition of one of the injured was stated to be critical . . . The blast coincided with the KLNLFs foundation day . It was the second blast suspected to have been triggered by the KLNLF in the past five days since the indefinite economic blockade called by the outfit began on Tuesday . . . Earlier in the day , the police recovered a live bomb from near the office of the Autonomous State Demand Committee in Diphu town , which was later defused . . . The KLNLF had claimed the responsibility for Tuesdays blast in a passenger train at Diphu railway station that claimed three lives and left 32 injured . The outfit also gunned down two Hindi-speaking persons at Dolamara village of the district . . . The Army on the other hand succeeded in motivating eight KLNLF cadres to give up violence and return to the mainstream . . . The eight cadres laid down arms and ammunition before General-Officer-Commanding -LRB- GOC -RRB- 21 Mountain Division , Major General Chander Prakash , at Jagiroad in central Assams Morigaon district . The arms included AK-56 rfiles , a 9mm pistol , a .32 revolver , a few grenades , explosives , detonators , ammunition and a hand-held radio set . LOC_Event : Nine persons , including two children , were injured in a powerful bomb blast by KLNLF militants in a market in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district where another bomb was recovered . Police sources said the bomb exploded in the forest gate of the fish market under Kheroni police station at around 5.40 Pm when about 2000 people gathered there . Five , including a woman and two children , were seriously injured , in the explosion of the bomb planted by Karbi Longri National Liberation Front , the sources said . A powerful bomb was recovered in Diphu town and eight militants of the KLNLF surrendered in neighbouring Morigaon district . An army patrol noticed a suspicious packet lying near the autonomous state demand council office here , official sources said . The two kg improvisewd explosive devise fitted with a timer device was defused by army engineers , the sources said . This is the sixth bomb recovered since December 2 when rebels of the same outfit blasted a bomb in Lumding-Diphu passenger train in Karbi Anglong district killing three persons and injury to 34 others . Meanwhile , eight militants surrendered before the army today with arms and ammunition at Jagiroad of Morigaon and deposited two AK-56 rifles , a 9-mm pistol , two .32 revolvers and 90 rounds of assorted ammunition , some grenades , explosives , detonators and a radio set to Maj Gen Chandan Kumar of the Red Horn division at a ceremony here . The KLNLF has called an indefinite economic blockade in the district since December 2 but vehicles were plying on the national highways with police escort . Nine persons , including two children , were injured in a powerful bomb blast in a market in central Assam ` s Karbi Anglong district on Saturday . Three ULFA militants were killed and another nabbed in two separate encounters in Upper Assam ` s Sibsagar district . Police said the bomb exploded in the Forest Gate daily market , under Kheroni police station , at 5.40 pm . . . Senior police and civil officials have rushed there . It was not yet known who was responsible for the explosion . The injured were admitted to hospital . . . Meanwhile , three ULFA militants were killed and another nabbed in two separate encounters in Upper Assam ` s Sibsagar district today . . . The 44 field regiment killed an insurgent of the banned outfit and nabbed another at Borhat near Choraipung , defence sources said . . . A grenade , two pistols and 15 cartridges were recovered from the militants , they claimed . . . At Khamun village , under Kakotibari police station , a group of insurgents opened fire on the 318 regiment troops ensuing a gun battle in which two ultras were killed . . . Security personnels recovered one AK-56 rifle , a pistol and ammunition from the militants . . . The encounter took place when the army had launched a search operation in the area for ULFA men who had shot at a teacher , Krishna Aais last night , the sources said . . . The killed militants were identified as Amarjyoti Patmout and Vyas Changmai while nabbed insurgent was identified as Kironjyoti Gogoi . . . Bureau Report . Sushanta Talukdar . . ULFA hand suspected ; blasts come hours before Chidambarams visit . . ULFA wanted to demonstrate its presence ahead of VIP visit . . NDFB expels its Bangladesh-based leader . . Guwahati : Five persons , including a boy and a woman , were killed and about 50 injured as serial blasts rocked the city on New Years Day . Police see the hand of the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- in the blasts , which occurred hours before Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram arrived in the city . . . The first blast occurred at 2.55 p.m. when an improvised explosive device planted in a LOC_Event at LOC_Event went off . This was followed by another blast at 5.30 p.m. at a temporary vegetable market in the LOC_Event locality . A cycle bomb was used here . The third blast occurred at 5.55 p.m. near the LOC_Event flyover close to a shopping mall along the busy G.S. Road . Fire broke out at the blast site , which was soon doused by fire tenders . Police suspect that the bomb was planted on an electric transformer . . . LOC_Event is on the route Mr. Chidambaram was to have taken from the airport . . . The injured were rushed to the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital -LRB- GMCH -RRB- , the Assam Medical College and Hospital and a private hospital . . . Director-General of Police G.M. Srivastav told The Hindu : We had information that some cadres of the ULFAs 709 battalion have entered the city to trigger blasts and we were hot on their trail . Under pressure in the form of stepped-up security , they dumped one bomb at a garbage bin in LOC_Event locality . . . The DGP said the ULFA wanted to demonstrate its presence ahead of Mr. Chidambarams visit . . . Thursdays blasts came after the A and C Companies of the ULFAs 28 Battalion declared the formation of the ULFA -LRB- pro-talk -RRB- faction and dropped the demand for Assams sovereignty , and sought political dialogue on their demand for total autonomy for Assam . . . Earlier , Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi , when asked whether a dialogue would be initiated with the two ULFA companies which declared a unilateral ceasefire , told reporters that the cadres of the two pro-talk groups were in camps but the government was not keen on holding talks with one faction and wanted everybody in the outfit to come forward . . . In another development , the National Democratic Front of Boroland -LRB- NDFB -RRB- expelled the outfits Bangladesh-based leader D.R. Nabla for alleged involvement in the October 30 , 2008 serial blasts . In a press statement issued in Kokrajhar , the newly elected president , B. Sungthgra , said the NDFB will not have any sort of link with Mr. Nabla and his accomplices . . . We are shocked and surprised that Mr. D.R. Nabla alias Ranjan Daimary , as per the statement of Ajay Basumatary , who has been recently arrested along with three others in Goalpara district , is proved to be directly involved in a series of bomb blasts in Assam on October 30 where many innocent civilians were brutally killed without any reason . The killing was inhuman and unfortunate which reveals nothing but his love for sadism . He not only committed crimes against humanity but also violated the ceasefire which he himself declared unilaterally on October 8 , 2004 . The act is undoubtedly an act of terrorism and can never be part of revolutionary struggle , the NDFB statement said . . . The expulsion came a day after the ceasefire between the NDFB and the Centre expired . . . PM condemns blasts . . PTI reports from New Delhi : . . Condemning the blasts in Guwahati , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the government would root out terrorism , taking the recent anti-terror measures to their logical conclusion . . . Matter of concern . . Special Correspondent reports from New Delhi : . . Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha L.K. Advani condemned the blasts and said it was a matter of concern that the explosions occurred shortly before Mr. Chidambaram arrived in the city . . . The BJP leader said it was well-known that there were groups in Bangladesh that were behind terrorist activities in Assam . He expressed the hope that with Sheikh Hasina taking charge , ties between India and Bangladesh would improve . . . Three bomb explosions rocked the city of LOC_Event on Thursday killing atleast five persons and injuring over 30 . The Assam Police suspects the banned United Liberation Front of Asom behind the blasts . . . Three powerful explosions went off at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event areas in the city . The first blast took place at 1515 hrs at LOC_Event , followed bythe nextone at in LOC_Event at 1745 hrs and the final one at LOC_Event at 1800 hrs.The bomb at LOC_Event was planted in a Guwahati Municipal Corporation dustbin while two others bombs were planted in market places . . . Two of the killed were identified as persons identified as 17-year-old Amal Das and Kahil Seikh , while at least 25 persons were admitted to various hospitals . . . There were four ladies among those admitted in Guwahati Medical College Hospital . Those injured in Birubari blast were identified as Altaf Ali , Fatema Begum and Raul Ali , the sources said . . . At least 13 persons were injured in the blast at a market in LOC_Event area in the city . The blaststook placejust a few hoursbefore Union Home Minister P Chidambaramis scheduled toarrive in the citytoday to review the security scenario in the state . . LOC_Event : Admitting security lapses , Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi on Thursday directed security forces to intensify operations against terrorists in the wake of three bomb blasts in LOC_Event that left five dead and injured at least 51 others . . . Asked whether the blasts were the result of intelligence failure , he said , `` I do not say failure but lapses are there . '' . . `` No country can provide 100 per cent security and we do n't have the best intelligence . We need to improve and strengthen our police force apart from ensuring its modernisation , '' Gogoi said . . . The Chief Minister said the needle of suspicion for the blasts pointed towards ULFA . . . Gogoi also briefed Union Home Minister P Chidambaram on the law and order situation in the state at a meeting at the Raj Bhawan . . . The Chief Minister , who visited the blast sites , said he was shocked at the inhuman and cowardly act of the terrorists on the New Year day . He also directed security forces to intensify operations against terrorists . . . `` We have hoped to usher in peace in the New Year , but the blasts have forced us to intensify operations against the terrorists . I urge people to come forward and fight against these forces unitedly , '' he said . . . Gogoi directed health authorities to provide all possible help to the injured undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the city . . . Asked whether the blasts were timed with Chidambaram 's visit to the state capital , the Chief Minister said `` no '' . . . He also favoured the creation of a National Security Guard hub in LOC_Event . . . Alleging that Bangladesh was providing shelter to ULFA and other terrorist outfits like NDFB , Gogoi asked Chidambaram to take up the matter with the new dispensation , headed by Awami League chief Sheikh Hasina , there . . . He said he was 100 per cent sure that India would put diplomatic pressure on Bangladesh not to give shelter to insurgents . . . Gogoi said Chidambaram told him it was a `` good signal '' that Hasina had come to power in Bangladesh . . . . GUWAHATI : Serial blasts rocked LOC_Event early evening on New Year 's Day , killing five people and severely injuring 51 others as LOC_Event opened its 2009 account with more bloodshed and terror . . . The three blasts , masterminded by Ulfa 's 709 Batallion , at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event happened even as the state was awaiting the landing of home minister P Chidambaram at the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi airport . The third blast which was the most powerful of the three , took place barely 200 metres from the Times of India office in the city . . . Chidambaram 's most crucial engagement in LOC_Event happens to be the Thursday evening and Friday morning meeting of the unified command , which is the apex counter insurgency body in the north east . The meeting would also have chief minister Tarun Gogoi participating . . . It is strange that considering the importance of the event and the fact that Thursday was New Year 's Day , the state security could have been so slack as to allow this sort of extreme terror manifest itself yet again . The security lapse was unpardonable also in the context of the fact that Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is due in LOC_Event on Friday morning and that he has a meeting with Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi on the day . Considering that the city is unsafe , the meeting is scheduled within the airport complex itself . The prime minister will thereafter go to Shillong to attend the Indian Science Congress . . . The last serial blasts took place in the city just two months ago on October 30 , 2008 , and had taken the city completely unawares . This time too , LOC_Event was celebrating the New Year and the streets were full of revellers , eager for yet one more evening of fun . On October 30 , the nine blasts had claimed 89 lives and left over 500 innocent people injured . . . DIG , Assam Police , G.P Singh told ET : `` ULFA is behind the blasts , we have intercepted messages '' . The first blast went off at about 2.35 pm in a garbage bin in the LOC_Event area . The second blast took place around 5.15 pm at LOC_Event in a teeming market place . Just 15 minutes later , the biggest of them all , rocked LOC_Event , where 20 metres away was a mosque and just opposite the latest Big Bazaar shopping mall . . . Like the October 30 blasts , the explosion at LOC_Event also took place adjacent to a flyover . Intelligence agencies said that the explosions were designed to be triggered just prior to the home minister 's visit to the city . . . Chidambaram was whisked away to Raj Bhawan as soon as he landed . He had detailed discussions with Mr Gogoi . . . `` The timing of the blast was made with precision . The LOC_Event market place is just few metres away from the road which the home minister would have taken to reach Raj Bhavan . The home minister reached LOC_Event around 6.30 pm . Maybe , the aim of the blasts was to attract the attention of the Union government '' said The aim of the blast is to get the notice of government of India , '' intelligence sources told ET . . . There was complete confusion in Guwahati after the blasts , with the city going back into its customary shell and people hurried home . Five people were killed and over 50 injured in three blasts set off by insurgent outfit ULFA here today hours before Union Home Minister P Chidambaram 's visit to review law and order situation in the state rocked by deadly blasts that left 88 dead two months ago . . . Three people were killed and 35 injured , including four women , when a bomb planted in front of a closed sweet shop exploded near upmarket LOC_Event flyover on the busy Guwahati-Shillong road at around 5:45 pm . . . Two persons died on way to hospital while another succumbed to his injuries at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital , DGP G M Srivastava said . . . Two of the dead were identified as Amal Das and Kahil Sheikh . . . A bomb kept in a bicycle exploded at a market in the LOC_Event area , the route which Chidambaram was to take on his way from the airport , under Baralumukh police station around 5.30 pm in which two persons were killed and 12 others injured , official sources said . . . An Improvised Explosive Devise ( IED ) kept in a Gauhati Municipal Corporation ( GMC ) dustbin went off at around 3.30 pm injuring three persons in LOC_Event area . . . The blasts came a day ahead of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 's arrival here tomorrow enroute Shillong to inaugurate the Indian Science Congress there on January three . . . Chidmabaram arrived at the Lokopriyo Gopinath Bordoloi international airport on a two-day visit to the state to review LOC_Event 's law and order situation and attend a meeting of the Unified Command headed by Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi . . . . Five people were killed and over 50 injured in three blasts allegedly set off by insurgent outfit United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) in the Assam 's important city , Guwahati , on Thursday hours before Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram 's visit to the state.Three people were killed and 35 injured , including four women , when a bomb planted in front of a closed sweet shop exploded near upmarket Bhangagarh flyover on the busy Guwahati-Shillong road at around 5:45 pm.Two persons died on way to hospital while another succumbed to his injuries at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital , DGP G.M. Srivastava said.Two of the dead were identified as Amal Das and Kahil Sheikh.A bomb kept in a bicycle exploded at a market in the LOC_Event area , the route which Chidambaram was to take on his way from the airport , under Baralumukh police station around 5.30 pm in which two persons were killed and 12 others injured , official sources said.An improvised explosive devise ( IED ) kept in a Gauhati Municipal Corporation ( GMC ) dustbin went off at around 3.30 pm injuring three people in Birubari Tiniali area.The blasts came a day ahead of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 's arrival here on Friday en route Shillong to inaugurate the Indian Science Congress there on January 3 . Chidambaram arrived at the Lokopriyo Gopinath Bordoloi international airport on a two-day visit to the state to review Assam 's law and order situation in the wake of deadly blasts that left 88 dead two months ago and attend a meeting of the Unified Command headed by Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi . . Sushanta Talukdar . . Police know two perpetrators of the blasts . . LOC_Event : Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram on Friday said the Centre had prior intelligence on Thursdays serial blasts here and it was shared with the LOC_Event government in the evening of December 31 , resulting in the police nearly succeeding in apprehending one of the three perpetrators of the blasts . . . Mr. Chidambaram said he spoke to Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi on Thursday morning about the intelligence input . . . The serial blasts on the New Years Day claimed five lives and left 62 injured . . . The police knew who the person is . They knew him by face and his family , and nearly succeeded in apprehending him . This time , with little bit of luck , he evaded the police . This time , the police were unlucky . Next time they will be lucky , Mr. Chidamabaram told reporters after a two-hour long meeting of the Unified Command . . . The meeting was attended by Mr. Gogoi and top Army , police , paramilitary forces and intelligence officials . . . Soon after Mr. Chidamabarams briefing , the police released a photograph of Pranjal Deka alias Biju Sarania , a cadre of the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- , who they suspect to be behind the blast at LOC_Event . . . Mr Chidambaram said that while escaping , Deka dumped a bomb in a trash bin and two of his associates planted explosive devices at LOC_Event and LOC_Event . Two of the three perpetrators are known to the police . I have full faith on the ability of the police to apprehend them . . . Broad guidelines had issued to the Unified Command that it should have a more sharply focused strategy . . . No quarter will be given to militancy . Any banned organisation will be dealt with firmly and decisively , said the Minister . These organisations must get the clear message that the security forces would deal decisively and firmly with them . . . Mr. Chidambaram said he requested the Chief Minister and his Cabinet to devote their entire energy on development issues . While the Chief Minister and his government deal with development issues , the security forces will decisively deal with anyone who threatens the countrys sovereignty . . . Earlier , inaugurating the 11,111 th branch of State Bank of India at Sonapur in Kamrup district , the Home Minister said that whatever may be the obstacles and threats to the LOC_Event people , the United Progressive Alliance government was determined to bring development to the State . However formidable the obstacles may be , we are determined to overcome them . . . Welcoming Bangladesh Prime Minister elect Sheikh Hasinas statement , expressing her willingness to work with India in fighting terror as positive , he said : We hope that we can make a new beginning and we can neutralise the leadership of the banned organisations , who have found sanctuary in Bangladesh . The Minister refused to compare the October 30 serial blasts in the State with the Thursdays blasts . Sushanta Talukdar . . GUWAHATI : The prime accused in the January 1 serial blasts in Guwahati , Pranjal Deka alias Biju Sarania of the United Liberation Front of Asom , was killed in an encounter with a joint team of police and the Army on Thursday night . The blasts claimed five lives and injured 62 . . . Director-General of Police G.M. Srivastav told TheHindu that while Pranjal Deka was killed in the encounter another bomb-maker , who was with him at the time of encounter , managed to escape . . . The encounter took place at Halikuchi village in Kamrup district . . . The joint team launched a manhunt in search of Pranjal , a hardcore ULFA cadre after he escaped the security dragnet but not before dumping an improvised explosive device in a garbage bin at LOC_Event locality on January 1 . . . The IED was the first to go off and injured two persons . His two other accomplices triggered the second and the third blasts at LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . A day after the serial blasts , the police had released Pranjals photograph as the prime accused in the serial blasts shortly after Union Home Minister P. Chidamabaram told reporters here that Assam Police had nearly succeeded in apprehending the perpetrator of the serial blasts and they also knew him by his name , by face and his family members . . . 12 arrested . . LOC_Event Senior Superintendent of Police Pradip Chandra Saloi said police have arrested 12 people in connection with the serial blasts , including an ULFA cadre Sanjib Talukdar of Rangiya who has confessed to have planted the bomb at LOC_Event . . . Sanjib has confessed that he had planted the bomb at LOC_Event while we have got the information that Pranjal alias Bjiu Sarania has assembled the other two IEDsone dumped in the garbage bin at LOC_Event and the other planted at LOC_Event in the city , the SSP added . . . He also said that Sanjib had confessed during interrogation that he had brought the bomb from Rangiya and planted at LOC_Event . . . Mr Saloi claimed a self styled sergeant major of ULFAs 709 Battalion Khagen Kalita had drawn the blueprint for the terror attack . . . Police are on the look-out for Khagen , he said . The city police have so far arrested 12 persons in connection with the serial blasts . GUWAHATI : Terror struck on the first day of 2009 in Assam where three serial blasts in as many hours triggered by suspected Ulfa militants left five people dead and more than 60 injured in LOC_Event . -LRB- Watch -RRB- The explosions took place a few hours before P Chidambaram flew in for his maiden visit as home minister to review the law and order situation . He was escorted to the Raj Bhawan from the airport under heavy security , past one of the blast sites . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Terrorists appeared to mock a heavy security bandobast put in place for the New Year in the wake of the 26/11 Mumbai carnage and for the home minister 's visit . Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi admitted as much . `` There were security lapses . Our police force needs to be modernized and trained to deal with such terror attacks , '' he said , echoing something that 's become obvious since the Mumbai attack . Ironically , Chidambaram 's visit was to review security to prevent terror bombings like the one in Guwahati , Kokrajhar , Barpeta Road and Bongaigaon on October 30 , 2008 , in which 89 people were killed . He was also scheduled to discuss with Gogoi cross-border terrorism in the state which shares a porous boundary with Bangladesh.Police said the first blast took place near Lokopriya Gopinath Bordoloi TB Hospital at LOC_Event at 2.35 pm , injuring five people , including a 10-year-old child.This was followed by another explosion at the busy LOC_Event near the famed LOC_Event . Two persons died and about 25 others were injured . Police said the militants had planted an IED on a bicycle . The third blast , which was more devastating , was carried out at LOC_Event , one of the poshest areas in Guwahati , at 5.45 pm . Dotted with shopping malls , the spot is located about 200m from the The Times of India office . Three of the 34 people injured in the blast died in hospital . Police suspect the bomb was kept inside a pan shop , whose owner suffered injuries . `` We suspect Ulfa 's hand . Investigation is on . Forensic experts have rushed to the spot , '' senior superintendent of police P C Saloi said . In its mouthpiece , Freedom , Ulfa said on Thursday , `` India wanted to dominate South Asia , ignoring the sovereignty of other countries in the region . '' It accused the Centre of `` equally suppressing '' the demand of sovereignty by the people of Assam , Nagaland , Tripura , Kashmir , Arunachal Pradesh and Kamtapur.On the other hand , pro-talks Ulfa leaders led by Mrinal Hazarika and Jiten Gogoi announced that they had dropped the sovereignty demand in favour of more autonomy on the lines of Jammu and Kashmir . A senior army officer had warned that Bangladesh-based fundamentalist groups could sneak into Assam and other north-eastern states fearing pressure from the newly-elected Sheikh Hasina Wajed government . `` We can not completely rule out the involvement of such elements in Thursday 's blasts . It 's high time that state intelligence agencies became proactive , '' the officer said.Earlier , Assam accused `` external elements '' of carrying out the October 30 blasts in collaboration with Ulfa and National Democratic Front of Bodoland.QnA : Will 2009 see India fall prey to more terrorist attacks or will we be more resilient ? . Special Correspondent . . KOLKATA : A cyclist and a scooterist were killed and 14 others injured , two of them seriously , in a powerful blast outside a major market at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district on Wednesday . The death toll could rise , it is feared . The hand of a militant group , Kamtapur Liberation Organisation , is suspected . . . The explosive was kept on a cycle outside the market . The cyclist was killed on the spot when he got on it . The scooterist , who was nearby , was severely injured and died later . A bomb disposal unit from the Indian Air Force base at Hasimhara defused other explosives found at the site . . . We had a similar incident at the Barobisha checkpost along the district border with Assam in May 2008 and the involvement of the KLO in Wednesdays blast is not ruled out , District Magistrate Vandana Yadav told TheHindu over telephone . Two persons were killed and 17 others injured when a powerful bomb strapped to a cycle exploded at a busy LOC_Event in north Bengals LOC_Event town on Wednesday . . . The cycle-bomb , more familiar in Assam , exploded with a deafening sound at a LOC_Event at busy LOC_Event in the central part of the town , the Jalpaiguri SP , Ananth Kumar , said . . . The bomb was a powerful one , though its exact nature was being ascertained , IG , north Bengal , K L Tamta said . . . Asked if it could be the handiwork of the ULFA , he said , Why should ULFA insurgents come here ? Two years ago there was a similar cycle-bomb explosion at LOC_Event in the LOC_Event sub-division . . . Tamta said the whole area had been cordoned off and the injured had been admitted to a Alipurduar sub-divisional hospital . . . One of the two persons killed has been identified as Sujit Das ,27 , Tamta said . . . Extremists of Kamtapur Liberation Organisation and ULFA are active in the area . . . . M.S. Prabhakara and PTI . . Suspected ULFA militants strike on eve of Manmohans visit . . LOC_Event : On the eve of Prime Minister Manmohan Singhs visit to LOC_Event , suspected militants of the United Liberation Front of Assam on Monday set off three blasts and mounted a grenade attack within five hours . Eight persons and over 62 were injured in the terror attacks . . . LOC_Event DGP G.M. Srivastav said seven people were killed and 56 injured in a powerful blast in a crowded market in Guwahatis LOC_Event around 2 p.m. . . The explosion sparked a fire that set ablaze two cars and 20 motorcycles and spread to a three-storey building housing the area police station . . . Six were killed at the blast site . One died of injuries after jumping from an adjacent building which had caught fire . The bomb is suspected to have been hidden in a car or a motorcycle parked adjacent to the North-East Frontier Railway headquarters . . . This is the handiwork of ULFA boys ahead of the outfits Raising Day Mr. Srivastav said , adding the militants used hi-tech explosives . . . A bomb was set off by unidentified persons in LOC_Event near Bokajan earlier in the day . . . Suspected ULFA militants also set off a bicycle bomb explosion in LOC_Event in LOC_Event district later . Four people were injured , one of them seriously , in this incident . According to an unconfirmed report , he later died of his injuries . . . An unidentified youth lobbed a hand grenade at Mankachar police station in Dhubri district , killing a police driver and injuring another . . . In the Guwahati blast , four of the dead , including a minor girl , have been identified . . . The Foundation Day of ULFA is observed on April 7 every year , marking the founding of the organisation on this day in 1979 . . . Congress sources said there will be no change in the Prime Ministers programme . He is to address an election rally in Dibrugarh . . . Dr. Singh represents Assam in the Rajya Sabha and the rally marks his entry into the poll campaign trail . . . The explosions have taken place amidst reports that two top bombing experts of the ULFA , identified by the police as Monohari Rajbongshi and Pradip Kalita , recently arrived in the city to carry out such attacks . . . Police released their photographs on Friday . New Delhi : Security agencies have arrested six people , including a self-styled Major of United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) , in a joint operation of the Army and the Assam Police in connection with Monday 's serial blasts in the state . . . Police have also released pictures of two ULFA cadre Manohar Rajbongshi and Pradeep Kalita suspected to have entered LOC_Event ahead of ULFA 's raising day on April 7 . . . They are suspected to be behind the blast that rocked LOC_Event on Monday in which seven people were killed and several other injured . . . There were three more blasts across LOC_Event - in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event - which killed one and injured several others . . . The blasts happened despite high security in view of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 's visit to the state on Tuesday . . . Earlier , in New Delhi Union Home Minister P Chidambaram presented a report card on terror saying only the Congress can deal with terror . . . Condemning the LOC_Event bomb blasts he said that India 's pluralitistic nature makes it a target . . . Chidambaram promised that if the Congress will be voted to power , the party will set up a war room headed by Cabinet Secretary to deal with terror . . . `` Congress is alive to challenges posed by terrorism and can provide a strong leadership to fight it , '' he added . . . Referring to the LOC_Event blasts , Chidambaram said : `` ULFA has waged a virtual war against the Indian state and the Government has strong reasons to believe that the perpetrators of LOC_Event blast belong to the banned outfit . '' . . Expressing his concern over the recent terror attacks , he said that security situation in South Asia is deteriorating very sharply and major steps should be taken soon . . . `` We are in the middle of a ring of fire , '' Chidambaram warned . . . . . It 's been a manic Monday in Assam as a total of four blasts have ripped through the state , killing eight people and injuring over 60 . The first one took place in Karbi-Anglong close to the BSF camp , the second and most lethal in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event area . Thereafter there was a blast in LOC_Event in Sonitpur district.The blasts came a day ahead of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh 's rally in the state and on the eve of the banned ULFA 's Raising Day on April 7 . Deaths in LOC_Event In LOC_Event , a car bomb exploded in the LOC_Event , leaving at least six people dead and dozens more injured.Assam DGP J M Srivastav said seven people were killed and 56 injured when a powerful bomb blast went off in LOC_Event at around 2:00 p.m. , sparking a fire that set ablaze two cars and 20 motorcycles and spread to a three-storey building housing the area police station.The blast triggered a huge fire and destroyed two dozen mobikes . Black smoke billowed out after the bomb , suspected to have been hidden in a car or a motorcycle , went off at 2 p.m. adjacent to the Northeast Frontier railway headquarters . The blast which is the second in a week in LOC_Event , comes a day ahead of the banned ULFA 's raising day . The first bomb was planted in the vehicle in a parking lot near LOC_Event close to the Kali Mandir in commercial Maligaon Chariali area when it was crowded with shoppers and children returning home from school . One of the victims was a student of the Maligaon Primary School . The students were coming out of the school when the bomb went off . Two of the dead were identified as Mousum Khatun and Bhupen Kumar . The injured were admitted to the nearby Sanjivani Hospital , N F Railway hospital , M M C Civil Hospital and Guwahati Medical College Hospital , the sources said . People angered over repeated blasts since October last year attacked the police and their vehicles . They were also annoyed that the recently launched ` Mrintunjoy 108 ' emergency service ambulances failed to arrive on time even after being informed . The blast site was cordoned off by the security forces suspecting more bombs could be hidden there . DIG G P Singh said ULFA 's 709 battlaion could be responsible for the explosion . ULFA regularly resorts to such blasts in the state on the eve of their ` Raising Day ' as a show of strength.Karbi Anglong blastJust hours before the car bomb attack in LOC_Event , another low intensity bomb had exploded near a BSF camp in LOC_Event district of central Assam . There were no serious injuries reported.The blast is suspected to be the handiwork of ethnic militant outfit , Karbi Longri National Liberation Front ( KLNLF ) . The KLNLF militants triggered the improvised explosive device at the BSF camp when the paramilitary troops were out patrolling the streets . The KLNLF has now called 36-hour bandh in LOC_Event and North Cachar Hills districts . The militants have claimed carrying out this blast to avenge the killing of their cadres by security forces.Sonitpur attackThe pain and panic of LOC_Event blast had not even settled in and people were still coping with the chaos when another bomb went off in a span of just over an hour . The third blast took place at LOC_Event in Sonitpur district . This time the bomb was placed on a bicycle parked close to a police station . Three people are reported to have been injured in the blast . Meanwhile , the security forces have cordoned off the blast site suspecting that there could be more bombs . LOC_Event is about 150 km north of Assam 's main city of Guwahati.Dhubri attackTwo police personnel have been killed and two injured in a blast in LOC_Event area of Dhubri district.with input from agencies . In all its 30 years as a militant organisation claiming to fight the state in the name of the people of LOC_Event , the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- has not once shown any serious inclination to push for a political solution . Instead , its commitment to a sovereign LOC_Event through armed struggle has invariably led it to pick soft targets , especially innocent civilians , in cowardly strike-and-flee terror operations across the north-eastern regions largest State . The spate of attacks during the run-up to the general election , which is scheduled for April 23 in LOC_Event , is in keeping with the groups virulent opposition to the democratic process . ULFA evidently has more faith in its fire power against soft targets than in the people it claims to represent . The bomb blasts of April 6 , which claimed 10 lives , were timed for the visit of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to LOC_Event , and also Raising Day , which marks the founding of the chauvinist outfit on April 7 , 1979 . For some years now , ULFA has chosen Raising Day , along with Republic Day and Independence Day , for carrying out major operations . In recent months , the dates of VIP visits have fallen in the same category . . . With its limited support base and its terrorist skills , ULFA poses a challenge more on the security front than on the political . Belying its name , it has failed to win anything but fringe support among the people of a State that badly needs livelihood support , jobs , and development and looks to the central government for more substantial assistance . After the dialogue process reached a dead-end in 2007 , ULFA faced a revolt in its ranks for the simple reason that it had no programme other than mindless violence that was leading nowhere . Unfortunately , security agencies were not quick enough to take advantage of this internal weakness , in part because ULFA was using Bangladesh as a base for its hit-and-hide operations . With Sheikh Hasina coming to power , India has a friendly government to count on . It needs to deploy all its persuasive powers to have the terrorist group flushed out of its Bangladesh sanctuaries . At home , the security forces must devise a coordinated operation to eliminate ULFAs infrastructure . A pan-north-east campaign against violent extremism has become an imperative and for this inter-State coordination , better intelligence , and more efficient sharing of intelligence among central security and State police forces is vital . ULFA has pockets of activity in Nagaland , Meghalaya , and Arunachal Pradesh and these must be eliminated through coordinated action . Meanwhile , the best answer to ULFAs extremism will be ensuring a peaceful general election in LOC_Event . . . Corrections and Clarifications . . In General Elections 2009 , voting in LOC_Event is in two phases - on April 16and April 23 . The editorial ` Combating ULFA ' -LRB- April 9 , 2009 -RRB- mentioned itas April 23 . GUWAHATI : Ten days before it goes to the polls and 24 hours before Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was to land in his home state , Assam was rocked by four deadly explosions on Monday that left at least nine people dead and more than 60 people injured . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Undeterred by the terror attacks , the prime minister will go ahead with his visit and address a rally at Dispur on Tuesday , officials in New Delhi said . Union home minister P Chidambaram called chief minister Tarun Gogoi minutes after the blasts . Official sources said the Union cabinet secretary , defence secretary and home secretary would arrive here on Tuesday to take stock of the situation . The finger of suspicion pointed to the northeast 's most active terrorist outfit , the United Liberation Front Of Asom -LRB- Ulfa -RRB- , which is to mark its 30th ` Raising Day ' on Tuesday . In the past , Ulfa terrorists have triggered blasts in the state to observe the day and also planted bombs just ahead of VVIP visits , the deadliest being serial blasts in January , just ahead of Chidamabaram 's first visit to Guwahati as home minister . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Monday 's deadliest blast was triggered at a busy bus stop at Maligaon on the outskirts of Guwahati around 1.40 pm and killed eight people , including a 10-year-old boy . More than 50 people were injured there . The Maligaon police station and the headquarters of the Northeast Frontier Railway are a stone 's throw from the site . According to a police officer scanning the site minutes after the blast , the explosion at Maligaon was caused by an improvised explosive device -LRB- IED -RRB- planted either on a bicycle or a motorcycle . People waiting at the bus stop were the first to be hit . The blast was so powerful that several cars and motorcycles parked nearby caught fire . The flames soon spread to neighbouring houses . Many people jumped out of their windows in panic to escape the fire and smoke and injured themselves . Less than two hours later , another explosion , this time at a busy marketplace in Dhekiajuli in Sonitpur district , injured three Railway Protection Force personnel on election duty . Here , too , the bomb was strapped to a parked bicycle , a vehicle of terror that has been used effectively by Ulfa terrorists . In the third blast in the evening , terrorists threw a grenade at the Mancachar police station in Dhubri district , killing a constable . Another grenade lobbed in the Garo Basti area in Udalguri district did not explode . A fourth bomb explosion rocked Karbi Anglong district , injuring two people . Gogoi condemned the blasts and said his government would crush the terrorist elements operating in the state . Deputy inspector general of police -LRB- central range -RRB- G P Singh said Ulfa was behind the blasts . ` We had information about the outfit 's plans to carry out terror activities ahead of its foundation day on April 7 , ' he said . Sources said intercepted messages of Ulfa militants suggest the outfit will now target security forces and non-Assamese people . ` The LOC_Event may have been carried out by one of Ulfa 's 109th battalion members who have recently sneaked into the city . We came to know about a 27th battalion Ulfa cadre named Deepak who had supposedly hired a man called Sagar Topno to carry out the blast in Sonitpur district , ' a source said . Forensic experts who visited the blast site at Maligaon said bicycle ball-bearings were packed into the bomb as shrapnel . Experts said chemical tests would be required to confirm the type of explosives used . An NSG bomb squad is also expected to arrive on Tuesday . Nalbari , ( Assam ) , Nov 22 ( ANI ) : Just four days before the first anniversary of the 26/11 terror attacks , bomb blasts in Assam claimed the lives of five people and injured about 30 . . . All the three-bomb blast took place in Assam 's LOC_Event District . . . At around 10.30 in the morning two of the explosions occurred outside a police station in LOC_Event , which is around 70 kilometers from Guwahati . . . A third bomb blast took place in the LOC_Event area . . . Further details are awaited . No outfit has claimed responsibility for the blast . ( ANI ) . . . View PhotosGuwahati , Nov 22 : Three serial blast rocked Assam 's LOC_Event district on Sunday , Nov 22 , killing five people and injuring 30 others , police said . . . The explosions went off in a span of 40 minutes . . . The first two bombs exploded outside a police station in Assam 's LOC_Event district , police said . . . The third blast , which took place in LOC_Event area , came five minutes after the first two blasts . 12:11 PM . . Two killed , 25 injured in Assam twin blasts . . At least two people have been killed and 25 others injured in a twin blasts that exploded outside a police station in Assam 's LOC_Event district , police said . . . According to an offcial , the bomb was kept on a parked bicycle and it exploded around 10 am . . . Police suspect that militants of the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) carried out the explosion . . . LOC_Event district is about 70 km west of Assam 's main city of Guwahati . 11:01 AM . . OneIndia News . . . Guwahati : Suspected ULFA militants triggered two blasts close to a police station in LOC_Event on Sunday , killing at least six persons and injuring 50 others . The first bomb , planted in a bicycle , went off at a spot adjacent to the police station at around 9:30 am , Superintendent of Police Jitmol Doley said.A similar blast occurred minutes after in front of a mobile phone shop , about 20 metres away from the police station , as people were trying to flee from the area , he said.Vehicles parked in the busy and crowded area were damaged due to the impact of the blasts.The areas where the blasts took place have been cordoned off by the police , which was carrying out a combing operation in the area.Prima facie the blasts seemed to be the handiwork of ULFA , according to police sources . The deceased have been identified as Keshab Das , Dipu Das and Ganesh Das , all local residents , and Pavan Thakur from Bihar , Doley said.A high alert has been sounded across the state in view of the blasts and people have been asked to remain indoors by the district administration . -LRB- With PTI inputs -RRB- . GUWAHATI : In another gruesome bomb explosion triggered by suspected ULFA militants in the LOC_Event township of LOC_Event , around 7 people were killed and over 55 people were injured on Sunday . . . LOC_Event which is 70 km away from capital city Guwahati was once the bastion of the ULFA . However , over the years , it has turned out to be peaceful place . On Sunday , at around 9.55 am , close to the Nalbari police station , which is in the heart of the town , an explosion took place . The bomb was concealed in a bicycle . . . Just 15 minutes later , another powerful explosion took place around 20 feet away from the spot of the first explosion . Five people died on spot . There was complete confusion and chaos in the township . . . Sources in intelligence agencies added , `` Already , inputs were there that nine member bombers from ULFA have sneaked to LOC_Event with the specific task of carrying out subversive activities prior to the Protest Day on November 27 . These cadres have sneaked in from Myanmar , Bhutan and Nagaland . The details of these cadres were provided in Assam police website . '' . . Sources further said , `` The nine cadres are Bosa Singh , Pinku Phukon , Upen Borgohain , Bimal Kalita , Swadhin Ray , Rajani Kanta Singha , Pulak Bharali , Hitesh Ray and Akon Moran . '' . . The outfit observes November 27 as Protest Day following launching of operation against the outfit on 1991 and declaration of the outfit as banned . . . Superintendent of police of the district , Jitmol Doley , told ET , `` The first bomb was kept in a bicycle . Our investigation is on and only after investigations , can we say with certainty what was used to trigger the explosions . '' . . Sources in the police are not ruling the possibility of the twin explosions being triggered as retaliatory attacks as two of the outfit 's leaders -- self-styled foreign secretary Sasha Choudhury and finance secretary Chitrabon Hazarika were picked up by security forces . Both the leaders are presently under police custody in LOC_Event . . . Already , ULFA militants have demonstrated their retaliatory postures when they blew up wagons of a tanker train carrying high-speed diesel ( HSD ) and petrol early this week . Goods from the Numaligarh Refinery Limited were heading to Panki in Uttar Pradesh . . . Hira Saraniya , commander of ULFA 's 709 battalion , the battalion which has been believed to have masterminded Sunday 's attack , called up media houses and claimed that the ULFA has no role in the explosions . . . He argued that ULFA has the capability of triggering explosions at any place . However , with the process being initiated for starting peace talks with the government and ULFA , this may be the handiwork of a third force . . . He stated that ULFA has never targeted innocent people . A senior official in the state police , however , is not ready to buy this argument . `` Whenever there is human casualty , the ULFA denies it . There is nothing unusual in it . They are escaping from incurring public wrath . '' . . Sources in the police said three explosions in less than a week 's time might be an attempt of the ULFA to show their strength . `` They want to show that they are capable of carrying out big strikes despite the arrest of two leaders . They want to convey the message that the outfit has enough fire power . '' . . LOC_Event chief minister Tarun Gogoi , who is in New Delhi , condemned the twin blast . He said those responsible for it would be apprehended . `` I have directed the district authorities to launch a massive operation and nab those involved in the bomb blasts immediately . '' . . This explosion has taken at a time when the People 's Committee for Peace Initiatives in Assam ( PCPIA ) , an umbrella body of 28 different organizations of the state , was readying to take a delegation to New Delhi for pressurizing the Centre to start the peace process with banned outfit , ULFA . The delegation is likely to visit the state capital on November 22 to meet the Prime Minister and the union home minister , the leader of the opposition and leaders of North East MPs ' Forum . Mintu Barman ,19 , who was seriously injured in the twin explosions that took place in the lower Assam town of LOC_Event on November 22 , died in a private hospital here on Sunday , taking the death toll to eight . . . Barman , a biscuit vendor in LOC_Event town , was seriously injured in the second blast when he tried to rescue some persons injured in the first blast . . . On Saturday , another injured Qader Ali had breathed his last at the GMC Hospital here . Ali ( 50 ) , a shopkeeper , was on his way to meet a doctor with his pregnant wife and 11-year-old son when the explosions took place . His son Aqid Zaman is still undergoing treatment at the hospital . . . While the police have attributed the twin explosions in LOC_Event to the outlawed United Liberation Front of Assam ( ULFA ) , the militant group denied its involvement in a statement issued the next day of the blasts.The police have rounded up three ULFA militants in connection with the serial blasts . . . . The toll in the twin bomb blasts in Assams LOC_Event town on November 22 rose to eight with a person succumbing to injuries on Saturday , official sources said here . . . A cloth merchant , Kader Ali and his 10-year-old son were injured in the second blast that took place near police station in LOC_Event . Ali , who was brought to the Guwahati Medical College Hospital here in a critical condition , succumbed to injuries and his son is still battling for life , they said . . . Seven people died on the day of the blasts while 54 others were injured with 34 of them shifted to the GMCH here . . . . The ULFA has claimed it was not involved in Sundays twin blasts in Nalbari district that claimed six lives and said it was carried out by the forces that want to derail the peace process . . . In a statement e-mailed to the media on Monday , ULFA chief Arabinda Rajkhowa said , We condemn Sundays blast in which innocent indigenous Assamese people were killed and such an act can be carried out only by enemies of Assam . The blast is part of a greater conspiracy and it was definitely carried out by forces who want to derail the peace process initiated by the ULFA . . . We believe that killing of indigenous Assamese people can not ensure the development of the state and we warn that such inhuman acts are stopped immediately , Rajkhowa said further . He appealed to the people to foil such attempts by forces , who are not interested in the well-being of the people and development of Assam . . . The denial comes even one person , suspected to be a ULFA militant , was picked up in connection with the blasts . . . Kumud Thakuria , arrested from Nikashi village in Baska district adjoining LOC_Event district and sharing international boundary with Bhutan , was later shifted to LOC_Event for interrogation . . . . At least 100 passengers of 15640 Dn Puri Express were injured when four bogies derailed and four more overturned after a powerful blast near LOC_Event in LOC_Event Assam 's LOC_Event district around 8.20 p.m. on Sunday . . . Earlier , the train , bound for Puri , departed the LOC_Event station at 6.45 p.m. . It left the Rangiya station at 8.05 p.m. and the blast occurred 7 km away , at LOC_Event . . . Passengers and local residents said they heard a deafening sound just before the derailment . . . The injured included pilgrims bound for the Jagannath temple at Puri . . . S. Hajong , Chief Public Relations Officer , Northeast Frontier Railway , told The Hindu that the derailment was caused due to a powerful bomb blast . . . The derailment occurred at LOC_Event between the Rangiya and Ghagrapar stations . The condition of several passengers was stated to be serious . A large crater was created on the track due to the impact of the remote-controlled blast . Train movement along the route was disrupted . . . No outfit has so far claimed responsibility for the blast . The four derailed bogies were just behind the engine . . . Shocked and traumatised injured passengers who included a number of children and women had to wait on the tracks for more than one-and-half-hour for rescue teams to reach the site and evacuate them to hospitals . . . Senior railway officials , accompanied by rescue teams , rushed to the spot . But before they could arrive , the local residents gave the injured first aid . . . Condition of several passengers said to be serious No outfit has so far claimed responsibility . . Condition of several passengers said to be serious . . No outfit has . . so far claimed responsibility . GUWAHATI : An improvised explosive device was used to trigger the blast that led to the derailment of the Guwahati-Puri Express in LOC_Event district in LOC_Event that left 100 passengers injured , officials said on Monday . . . Railway PRO Nripendra Bhattacharya said the explosion led to the engine and eight coaches jumping the rails at around 8:30 last evening at LOC_Event between Rangia and Ghagrapar in the district . . . Four of the coaches toppled over and fell into a three feet water-filled ditch following the explosion , he said . . . A large crater beside the tracks and a huge length of fuse wire leading to a jungle were found by the Bomb Disposal Squad after the derailment . . . A senior police officer said it appeared to be the handiwork of the Ranjan Daimary-led National Democratic Front of Bodoland anti-talk faction , active in the area . . . The officer said at least 100 passengers were injured who were admitted to the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital . . . Of the injured , 41 were in a serious condition , hospital sources said . . . Railway officials are supervising restoration operations at the spot with 300 labourers at work , the officer said . . . A special train with 800 passengers of the Guwahati-Puri Express left Guwahati for Puri at 5:30 this morning . Guwahati : An improvised explosive device was used to trigger the blast that led to the derailment of the LOC_Event in Kamrup district in Assam that left 100 passengers injured , officials said on Monday . . . Railway PRO Nripendra Bhattacharya said the explosion led to the engine and eight coaches jumping the rails at around 8:30 on Sunday at Dhatkuchi between Rangia and Ghagrapar in the district . . . Four of the coaches toppled over and fell into a three feet water-filled ditch following the explosion , he said . . . A large crater beside the tracks and a huge length of fuse wire leading to a jungle were found by the Bomb Disposal Squad after the derailment . . . A senior police officer said it appeared to be the handiwork of the Ranjan Daimary-led National Democratic Front of Bodoland anti-talk faction , active in the area . . . The officer said at least 100 passengers were injured who were admitted to the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital . . . Of the injured , 41 were in a serious condition , hospital sources said . . . Railway officials are supervising restoration operations at the spot with 300 labourers at work , the officer said . . . A special train with 800 passengers of the LOC_Event left Guwahati for Puri at 5:30 am on Monday . . . . . The Centre on Monday asked Assam to maintain utmost vigil , especially on the rail network , in the wake of Sunday 's derailment of Puri Express following a bomb blast near LOC_Event . . . Secretary -LRB- Internal Security -RRB- in the Home Ministry U.K. Bansal said the Assam government had assured the Centre that vigorous steps were being taken to apprehend those responsible for the blast . . . In the last three months , the Centre had shared a number of intelligence inputs with Assam on possible threats to the rail network , Mr. Bansal said in a statement . . . These inputs pointed to possible violent acts by the anti-talk faction of the National Democratic Front of Bodoland . However , the group 's publicity secretary , B. Sanjio , and the United Liberation Front of Asom have denied involvement in the blast . . . E-mail to TV channel . . It is learnt that an email has been received by a Guwahati-based television channel from a group called Adivasi People 's Army ' . This group has claimed responsibility for the blast . The email has been sent by one Sylvia Orang , a self-styled commander of the group . He is otherwise known as Soren , Mr. Bansal said . . . The IED blast damaged a stretch of the track and led to derailment of seven bogies of the train , injuring over 100 passengers near LOC_Event in Kamrup district . Three persons were injured in a grenade blast in LOC_Event Assam 's Tinsukia town on Monday evening . The condition of one of them is stated to be critical . . . Police said that two unidentified youths reportedly lobbed a grenade in the busy LOC_Event in the heart of LOC_Event town at 6.05 p.m. and sped away in a Maruti van . The glass panes of several vehicles and shops were smashed in the impact . No outfit has so far claimed responsibility . . . In another incident , security forces recovered a powerful bomb weighing about 5 kg in LOC_Event 's Chabua town earlier in the day . A woman , who is suspected to have been the courier , has been taken into custody . . . Initial investigation revealed that bomb was brought from Kakopathar area and was being taken to Sivasagar town . Jorhat , Jan. 2 : Three persons were injured , one of them critically , in a grenade explosion on the busy LOC_Event in the heart of LOC_Event town this evening . . . One of the injured was shifted to Assam Medical College and Hospital , Dibrugarh . . . Police sources said suspected Ulfa militants , who came in a blue Maruti van , threw the grenade at a shop , LOC_Event , owned by Kishan Minda . But the grenade missed the target and exploded outside the shop , damaging glass panes . A car parked near the shop was also damaged . . . An eyewitness said , A car stopped in front of Shankar Glass House and one person got down to buy potatoes from a roadside vendor . As soon as he got back into the car , they threw the grenade and fled . . . The police have tightened security in and around the town and are trying to locate the vehicle in which the militants were suspected to have come . . . Earlier in the day , troops of the armys 18 Jat regiment recovered an improvised explosive device ( IED ) , wrapped in a white polythene bag , from a Tata Winger passenger vehicle at Chabua in Dibrugarh district . The vehicle was going from Tinsukia to Dibrugarh . . . The police have detained eight persons , including a woman , for questioning . . . In another incident , army troops apprehended an Ulfa militant , identified as Hemkanta Changmai , at Lekhapni in Dibrugarh district today . An AK-81 was recovered from him . . . Security forces have intensified vigil in Upper Assam given the recent spurt in Ulfa activity . The forces are also on the alert in the area for Maoists . View PhotosSibsagar , Sept 24 : Eight persons were injured , one of them seriously , when a blast rocked this town in Assam late Monday night . . . Police said the blast , suspected to be caused by an IED , was triggered between Central Market and Lakshmi talkies in the heart of the headquarters town of Sibsagar district at 9 pm . The injured were taken to Sibsagar Civil Hospital and another private hospital nearby . . . Glass panes of some nearby constructions were broken by the impact of the blast . . . . One person was killed and seven were injured , three of them seriously , in a powerful explosion that rocked the Upper Assam town of LOC_Event on Monday night . The explosion occurred at around 9 pm . LOC_Event SP A K Singh blamed the anti-talk faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) for it . . . It is the handiwork of the ULFA which has been trying to cause mischief in the district in the past few weeks . They had recently triggered off an explosion in LOC_Event town too , the SP said . The explosion that occurred in the busy LOC_Event in the heart of LOC_Event town was caused by a device that was apparently kept on a bicycle . . . Reports from LOC_Event said the dead has been identified as one Lulu Das , a shopkeeper who was just coming out after shutting down his shop . While Das died on the way to the hospital , two of the injured have been shifted to the Assam Medical College Hospital in Dibrugarh . . . . Guwahati : One person was killed as a bomb went off at LOC_Event in Assam 's LOC_Event district early today , hours after an explosion in LOC_Event town , police said . . . A powerful bomb , suspected to be an improvised explosive device ( IED ) , went off around 1.30 am near the market in LOC_Event , a hill station about 220 km from Guwahati . . . Stepping up vigil . PTI . . `` The blast ripped apart the body of the person and this indicates that he was carrying the bomb , '' said a senior police official . The man is yet to be identified and investigations are on to find out which militant outfit he worked for . . . On Monday night , suspected militants belonging to the anti-talk faction of the Ulfa led by Paresh Baruah had triggered another powerful blast at LOC_Event town in Upper Assam , killing one and injuring eight others . Three explosions rocked LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts on Tuesday morning . There were no casualties . . . The police suspect the hand of the Peoples Liberation Army -LRB- PLA -RRB- , the armed wing of the Revolutionary Peoples Front , since the insurgent group is celebrating its foundation day . . . On Monday , the PLA exploded a bomb at LOC_Event , in Imphal East , though the police commandos targeted escaped unhurt . . . Police and security personnel have arrested 10 persons , including three women , in connection with the explosions . . . On Tuesday , the first blast took place early in the morning near the boundary wall of M-sector , the army administrative office in Imphal adjacent to the Raj Bhavan . . . Security sidestepped . . Despite being heavily guarded by armed personnel round the clock , suspected insurgents sneaked into the area and planted the bomb , which was later triggered with a remote-control device . . . The second explosion took place at LOC_Event in Bishnupur district , near the LOC_Event Gorkha Regiment , while the third took place at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district . . . The PLA and the Manipur Peoples Army , the military wing of the United National Liberation Front , have continuously targeted security personnel since September 5 . One Assam Rifles personnel was killed and some others , including a civilian , were wounded on September 8 . . . The insurgent groups had advised people to stay away from security personnel , who they said could be attacked at will , any time , any place . . . Police suspect role of Peoples Liberation Army One bomb was planted near Army office . . Police suspect role of Peoples Liberation Army . . One bomb was planted near Army office . Imphal : A powerful bomb exploded in an Army office in Manipur 's capital Imphal on Tuesday morning.The bomb was so powerful that the sound of the explosion could be heard from a distance of three km , official sources said , adding security personnel have cordoned off the complex before checking some passers-by . The bomb went off in the heavy security LOC_Event , adjoining Manipur Raj Bhavan and prestigious Johnstone Higher Secondary School , the sources said . . 2 powerful bombs explode in Manipur , another defused . . Imphal , Sep 25 ( PTI ) . . Two powerful bombs exploded at the heavily guarded Army office adjoining LOC_Event and at an LOC_Event in Bishenpur district , while another was unearthed on the outskirts of this town on Tuesday . . . One of the bombs went off at 5.30 am in LOC_Event in the heart of the town where the Army office was located , while the other exploded in LOC_Event around the same time , official sources said . . . No one was injured in either explosion , the sources said . . . It was not known whether insurgents had hurled the bomb at the Army office and near the gate of the LOC_Event at LOC_Event in Bishenpur district from the road , the sources said . . . A third bomb , weighing three kg allegedly planted by insurgents , was unearthed by a security patrol at LOC_Event area on the outskirts of this town , the sources said . . . The bomb was later defused . . . Sources refused to divulge details when asked how the explosions could take place in heavily-guarded areas , but said intensified security measures were in place in view of the 34th Raising Day of the banned Peoples Liberation Army . . . The sources said PLA insurgents were planting and exploding bombs at different places this month in an attempt to target security personnel . . . . The ULFA -LRB- Independent -RRB- on Wednesday denied its involvement in the bomb blast in LOC_Event town in which a girl was killed and nine others injured . . . The ULFA -LRB- I -RRB- in a release e-mailed to PTI here said that the outfit was in no way associated with the blast and expressed its deep condolences to the family members of the teenage girl killed in the incident . . . The outfits spokesman , Joy Asom , alleged that such incidents were usually the handiwork of security forces who carry out the blasts with the help of some agents who are kept in their custody . . . The acts of violence are carried out by these agents to malign the outfit and they are later made to surrender with the security forces claiming success in weakening the outfit , the release added . . . A high alert was sounded across Assam on Wednesday following the blast . Those injured in the blast are being treated at the Assam Medical College and Hospital . Inspector General of Police S.N.Singh said that an anti-talk faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom may be involved in the blast . PTI , ANI . A teenager was killed and nine persons , including a woman , were seriously injured in a crude bomb blast by suspected militants in LOC_Event of LOC_Event on Tuesday , police said . . . The crude bomb , planted under an electric pole went off at around 5 p.m. behind the LOC_Event in the busy LOC_Event area injuring 10 persons , some of them critically , district Superintendent of Police Rana Bhuyan told PTI . . . One of the injured , 14-year-old Purnima Rojok , succumbed to her wounds at the Assam Medical College Hospital where the other injured were admitted , the sources said . . . Preliminary investigations pointed to a crude bomb and not a grenade as no splinters were found at the site of the blast and also there was no trace of an improvised explosive device -LRB- IED -RRB- , Mr. Bhuyan said . . . The identity of the insurgent outfit responsible for the blast was not immediately known as investigations were on , the SP said . . . The explosion created a two feet wide crater on the road , the sources said . . . Local people had reported to police that two extremists came on a motorcycle and hurled a grenade before fleeing . . . Senior police officials have rushed to the site , cordoned off the area and tightened security arrangements in the town . . . On December 15 , 2013 a grenade was exploded by suspected anti-talk NDFB -LRB- Songbijit -RRB- at LOC_Event in LOC_Event killing one person and injuring four others . . . Ms. Rojok , a resident of Amoraguri area , was studying in class VIII , her family said . . . The injured were identified as Bhairon Shah -LRB- 45 -RRB- , Dalim Shah -LRB- 42 -RRB- , Paramnand Yadav -LRB- 42 -RRB- , Kishor Roy -LRB- 27 -RRB- , Bablu Das -LRB- 32 -RRB- and Shahnawaz Hussain -LRB- 24 -RRB- , police sources said . Jorhat/Dibrugarh , Dec. 17 : A schoolgirl was killed and 17 others injured in a bomb blast near LOC_Event along LOC_Event in Dibrugarh town around 5.15 pm today . . . The victim has been identified as Purnima Rajak , 14 , a resident of LOC_Event and a Class X student of Surajmal Jalan Balika Siksha Sadan in Dibrugarh town . She was to appear for her HSLC examination early next year . . . The injured were rushed to the Assam Medical College and Hospital , Dibrugarh , where they are said to be out of danger . They have been identified as Bhairon Shah , Dalim Shah , Paramananda Yadav , Kishor Roy , Babu Das , Shahnawaj Hussain , Ankit Jalan , Sariful Hussain , Abdul Karim , Khursid Ali , Kamal Gupta , Bikki Rabidas , Hira Ballav Deka , Rashmi Roy , Altaf Hussain and Tutu Ahmed . One of the injured persons is yet to be identified . . . Among the injured , 14 are from Dibrugarh while Sha-nawaj Hussain is from Bongaigaon and Bikki Rabidas from Sivasagar district . . . Police said investigations were on to find out the nature of the blast and have not ruled out the hand of militant outfits like Ulfa ( I ) or Maoists . Top district police and civil officials have rushed to the spot . . . Deputy superintendent of police Robin Gohain said , We suspect Ulfa could be behind the attack . A probe is on and we will be able to crack the case very soon . . . The bomb is suspected to have been planted in a dustbin near an electric pole and the whole area was engulfed in smoke after the blast . There is a market nearby . . . A senior police official said there was no power supply in the area at the time of the explosion and those who planted the bomb took advantage of the darkness . . . Dibrugarh deputy commissioner Aruna Rajoria told The Telegraph that preliminary investigation indicates that the explosion was caused by a crude bomb . . . She said samples have been collected from the blast site and are being sent to the state Forensic Science Laboratory in Guwahati to determine the nature of the explosives . . . Rajoria said compensation of Rs 3 lakh would be given to the next of kin of the dead according to government rules . . . DoNER minister and Dibrugarh MP Paban Singh Ghatowar and the AGP have condemned the incident . Ghatowar said he had not heard about such incidents in Dibrugarh and asked the government to tighten security . . . Home secretary G.D. Tripathi told The Telegraph that one person was killed and 11 injured . Suspected militants detonated a bomb killing a teenage girl and injuring 17 persons , including a woman , in LOC_Event Assam 's LOC_Event Dibrugarh today . Dibrugarh : Suspected militants detonated a bomb killing a teenage girl and injuring 17 people , including a woman , in upper Assam ` s tea town Dibrugarh on Tuesday . . . The explosive , probably a crude bomb , went off at around 5 pm behind the old railway station in the busy Amolapatty area below an electric pole , district superintendent of police Rana Bhuyan said . . . 14-year-old Purnima Rojok , who had been injured in the blast , succumbed to her wounds at the Assam Medical College Hospital . Seventeen others injured , some of them critically , have also been admitted to the hospital . . . Preliminary investigations pointed to a crude bomb and not a grenade as no splinters were found at the site of the blast and also there was no trace of an improvised explosive device ( IED ) , Bhuyan said . . . The explosion created a two-feet wide crater on the road , the sources said . . . The identity of the insurgent outfit responsible for the blast was not immediately known , the SP said . . . Both ULFA ( Independent ) and Maoist elements are known to be active in upper Assam . . . Local people had reported to the police that two extremists had come on a motorcycle and hurled a grenade before fleeing . . . Senior police officials went to the site , cordoned off the area , and tightened security arrangements in the town . . . Earlier on December 15 , a grenade was exploded by suspected anti-talk NDFB ( Songbijit ) at Molandubi Market in Kokrajhar district killing one person and injuring four others . Guwahati : The ULFA ( Independent ) on Wednesday denied its involvement in the bomb blast in Dibrugarh town in which a girl was killed and nine others injured . . . The ULFA ( I ) in a release e-mailed here said that the outfit was in no way associated with the blast and expressed its deep condolences to the family members of the teenage girl killed in the incident . . . The outfit ` s spokesman Joy Asom alleged that such incidents were ` usually the handiwork of security forces who carry out the blasts with the help of some agents who are kept in their custody . ' . . ` The acts of violence are carried out by these agents to malign the outfit and they are later made to surrender with the security forces claiming success in weakening the outfit , ' the release added . A crude bomb was exploded by suspected militants in the upper Assam town last evening behind the old Railway station in the busy Amolapatty area below an electric pole killing a teenage girl and injuring nine persons , including a woman . Guwahati : Security has been tightened across Assam in the wake of bomb blast by suspected militants in Dibrugarh district , in which a teenage girl was killed and nine persons injured . . . All district authorities have been directed to step up security and intensify patrolling to prevent further outbreak of violence , official sources said . . . Kamrup district administration has imposed prohibitory orders across the district to prevent unlawful and disruptive activities by any insurgent outfits . . . The order , issued by Additional District Magistrate Manik Chandra Sarma , prohibits gathering of more than five persons and carrying of arms and ammunition in public places . . . The authorities have also prohibited taking out of processions , slogan shouting and use of loudspeakers in public places . . . Entry within an area of 100 metres of vital installations like refineries , oil pipelines , state electricity board offices , BSNL offices and LPG bottling plants was also prohibited . . . The order also prohibits pillion riding on two-wheelers , though patients on way to hospitals , security forces , people above the age of 65 years and children below 12 years have been exempted from the purview of the bandh . . . The crude bomb was exploded by suspected militants in Dibrugarh town last evening , killing a teenage girl and injuring nine persons , including a woman . Twin blasts ripped through two coaches of a train Thursday morning just minutes after it pulled into one Chennai Central , one of India 's busiest railway stations , killing a 22-year-old woman and injuring 14 other people , officials said . . . Police said they were questioning one suspect in the explosions at LOC_Event railway station in the country 's southeast , but there were no further details . . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh condemned the attacks , saying ` such barbaric acts targeting innocent men , women and children only highlight the desperation and cowardice of those responsible . ' . . There was no immediate claim of responsibility in a region of India considered relatively peaceful . . . Authorities suspect the blasts were caused by bombs planted on the Bangalore-Guwahati Express train , said M. Bhupati , the spokesman for India 's southern railway system . . . ` The police are already on the job , they are investigating what kind of bomb it was and what was the purpose , ' R.K. Mishra , the general manager of Southern Railway , told reporters . . . The blasts come amid heightened security nationwide for the general elections , which are being held in phases over several weeks . . . At least one of the blasts erupted from underneath a seat where the 22-year-old victim was sitting , killing her , Mishra said . Fourteen people were hospitalized , but none of the injuries was serious , said G. Muthuraj , a spokesman for the Rajiv Gandhi General hospital in LOC_Event . . . Largest rail networks . . India has one of the world 's largest railway networks , with more than 23 million passengers a day riding on about 11,000 trains . Every day , hundreds of thousands of commuters and long-distance passengers use the railway station in LOC_Event , one the country 's busiest . . . The train originated in Bangalore and was headed to Gauhati , the main city in the remote northeastern state of Assam . . . K. Ramanujam , Tamil Nadu 's director-general of police , said a special investigation team comprising forensic experts and police would investigate the blasts . ` It is premature to speculate what kind of device was used in the blast . The damage to the train is not heavy , ' Ramanujam said . . . PM Manmohan Singh has condemned the attacks Police say they were questioning one suspect at LOC_Event railway station , but there were no further details There was no immediate claim of responsibility . . PM Manmohan Singh has condemned the attacks . . Police say they were questioning one suspect at LOC_Event railway station , but there were no further details . . There was no immediate claim of responsibility . Four days after the twin blasts on a train at the LOC_Event , investigators are suspecting the role of the home-grown terror group , Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- , in the terrorist act that claimed the life of a woman passenger and injured 14 others . . . While the IM is also suspected to have been involved in the blasts at LOC_Event last October ahead of a rally by the BJPs prime ministerial candidate , Narendra Modi , the Tamil Nadu CB-CID police are coordinating with the National Investigating Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- probing the LOC_Event blasts , top police sources told The Hindu on Monday . . . The State polices coordination covers tracking the location and movements of the suspects absconding in the LOC_Event blasts case , the sources said . The arrested accused in the case were also being quizzed about their alleged associates at large , they said . . . The timer devices , planted in two coaches of the Bangalore-Guwahati Express , exploded on May 1 , shortly after the train reached LOC_Event that morning beyond schedule . The probe team had , inferring from the trains delayed arrival , said that if not for the delay , the bombs could have gone off in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh , where Mr. Modi had addressed election meetings later that day . . . The CB-CID investigators were further probing other angles to the motives , sources said . They are also looking at other possible targets , particularly why the attackers chose the Guwahati-bound train and whether it was meant to be a retaliatory message sought to be conveyed after the recent killings of Muslims in Assam , the sources said . . . In widening their investigation , the CB-CID police were coordinating with their counterparts in Andhra Pradesh , Karnataka , Assam , Bihar and West Bengal and shared the CCTV footage with them . On how the bombs could have been triggered to explode in Tamil Nadu , the sources explained that timer devices were usually programmed up to seven hours , as was done in the LOC_Event blast in Bangalore during the IPL a couple of years ago . . . Flutter at LOC_Event . . Meanwhile , CB-CID sleuths , who took a look at the CCTV footage from the cameras fixed at the LOC_Event station on Monday , were stunned to find that a man waiting on the platform in the early hours of May 1 there resembled the suspect spotted in the LOC_Event CCTV footage released by the police earlier . . . The height and dress colour of the man standing on the platform of the LOC_Event station by 4 . 02 a.m. on May 1 was similar to the man hurriedly coming out of LOC_Event , police sources in Vellore said . The Bangalore-Guwahati Express , scheduled to reach LOC_Event by 3.13 a.m. , arrived that day at 4.42 a.m. , raising queries whether the man who planted the bomb had boarded the train at LOC_Event . But the video did not show the man carrying any backpack . . . However , the poor quality pictures have prevented the CB-CID sleuths from coming to any definitive conclusion so far . May 1 was meant to be a lean day for Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital -LRB- GH -RRB- but , just as these things sometime go , doctors had to get into the act , as persons injured in the bomb blasts at LOC_Event were wheeled into the casualty wards from 7.30 a.m. . . Fourteen persons , including a woman and two teenagers , had sustained various degrees of injuries in the blast and were rushed to the hospital . Most of them had injuries on their lower limbs . . . Officials at GH said the injured were : Shariful Haque -LRB- 27 -RRB- , Saren Barman -LRB- 31 -RRB- and Bimal Kumar Das -LRB- 43 -RRB- of Jalpaiguri , West Bengal ; G. Anjaneyalu -LRB- 29 -RRB- and Murali Loknath -LRB- 21 -RRB- of Andhra Pradesh ; G. Hari -LRB- 21 -RRB- and Jitendra Mohanta Deka -LRB- 51 -RRB- of Bangalore , Karnataka ; Sadan Chandra Debnath -LRB- 64 -RRB- and Sumant Debnath -LRB- 37 -RRB- of north Tripura ; Bijan Kumar -LRB- 14 -RRB- and Altaf Khan -LRB- 17 -RRB- of Manipurof Manipur ; Umari Hani -LRB- 45 -RRB- of Assam ; and Sagun Kumar Rai -LRB- 23 -RRB- and Krishna -LRB- 28 -RRB- of West Bengal . . . As the trauma and emergency surgical ward swelled with people , particularly mediapersons , security guards and police personnel struggled to manage the crowd . Soon , the ward was cordoned off , including for the media . . . The hospital authorities said this was one of the biggest cases handled by the hospital in the last five years , after two train accidents at Arakkonam in Vellore district in 2011 and 2013 . . . But we were able to manage the emergency situation . Doctors from various specialties were brought together to treat the injured immediately , said an official . A 22-year old woman was killed and 14 others injured , two of them grievously , when two bombs exploded in the BangaloreGuwahati tri-weekly express here on Thursday . The explosions took place minutes after the train reached Platform No. 9 at the LOC_Event Central Station at 7.15 a.m. on Thursday . . . Train No 12509 that left Bangalore Junction at 10.30 pm on Wednesday was scheduled to arrive at Chennai Junction at 5.40 a.m. However , the train reached LOC_Event around 7.10 a.m. Within few minutes , bombs exploded one after the other in reserved second sleeper coaches , S 4 and S 5 . . . Explosives were kept under the seat number 28 in Coach S 4 and under seat number 69 in coach S 5 . If the train had been on time , it would have entered Andhra Pradesh , where the BJP 's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi is scheduled to address a rally near Nellore on Thursday evening . . . A multi-agency probe has been launched to investigate the source and nature of the bombs . . . As soon as the news of blast started spreading , there was commotion in the busy LOC_Event , the main gateway to the city , and traffic congestion on all roads leading to it . . . Police and railway officials on emerging out of both the coaches in which the blast took place said that it was a low intensity explosion caused by suspected objects kept beneath the seats . . . The deceased was identified as 22-year old Swati , a post-graduate in M.Tech from Hyderabad working in Bangalore who was on her way to meet her parents at Vijayawada . . . Injured list . . Grievously injured persons included ; one unidentified male and Sumantho Devnath -LRB- 37 -RRB- . Names of those who sustained minor injuries include ; Shaiful Haque -LRB- 27-M -RRB- , Anjanedu -LRB- 29-M -RRB- , Vimal Kumar Das -LRB- 43-M -RRB- , Shagun Kumar Rai -LRB- 23-M -RRB- , Altaf Khan -LRB- 17-M -RRB- , Uma -LRB- 35-F -RRB- , Jitendra Mohanto Deka -LRB- 58-M -RRB- , Sari -LRB- 21-M -RRB- , Murali -LRB- 27-M -RRB- , Bijoy Kumar -LRB- 14-M -RRB- , Sudanchand Debnath -LRB- 64-M -RRB- , Surendra Varma -LRB- 31-M -RRB- . In the panic that followed the explosion , passengers who ran for safety resulting in a stampede-like situation . . . The train was detained for nearly four hours . After detaching both the coaches -LRB- S 4 and S 5 -RRB- , the rest of the composition of the train was dispatched from LOC_Event for onward journey around 11.30 a.m. . In the impact of the collision , there were minor damages to the three adjacent coaches - S 3 , S 4 and S 5 . . . Sniffer dogs were pressed into service and Anti-Sabotage Teams -LRB- AST -RRB- of the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad of the City Police carried out searches . The three damaged coaches were detached for detailed forensic analysis . . . Passengers from these coaches were accommodated in other coaches . Railway Protection Force , Government Railway Police and Chennai City Police cordoned off the Platform No 9 . Passengers in other coaches who disembarked for enabling the police to search the coaches complained that miscreants had looted their belongings , making use of their temporary absence . . . Bagal Singh -LRB- 55 -RRB- who was travelling along with his family on the train said there was a noise and soon the train came to a halt and it took a few minutes for those in the nearby coaches to realise that it was an explosion . . . Director-General of Police K. Ramanujam , DGP -LRB- elections -RRB- Anoop Jaiswal , Additional Director-General of Police -LRB- Law and Order -RRB- T.K. Rajendran , Chennai City Police Commissioner J.K. Tripathy , Inspector-General of Police Railway Police , Seema Agarwal , Chief Security Commissioner of RPF Southern Railway V.K. Dhaka and other officials visited the scene of crime . . . Main lines unaffected . . As a result of the explosion , trains towards LOC_Event were detained outside LOC_Event and were accommodated in other platforms after a brief delay . However , Southern Railway said there was no cancellation or rescheduling of trains as the main lines were unaffected , . . . Southern Railway has asked the passengers to report at the station one hour in advance to go through security checks such as frisking and scanning of baggage before boarding the train . Many trains approaching LOC_Event were detained at various stations . . . General Manager of Southern Railway Rakesh Misra , who was accompanied by Additional General Manager S. Vijayakumaran , said that a compensation of Rs 50,000 would be paid to the family of the deceased as an immediate measure , Rs 25,000 would be paid to those who sustained serious injuries and Rs 5,000 to those who sustained minor injuries . . . The investigators were perusing the CCTV footage in LOC_Event and Bangalore to look for clues . Meanwhile police sources said that a Special Investigation Team of the CB-CID will be formed and the case will be transferred to them for further investigations . Police sources also said that the Ministry of Home Affairs had asked the State Police for a report on the blast . Meanwhile , unconfirmed reports said that a team from National Investigation Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- and National Security Guards -LRB- NSG -RRB- are likely to visit LOC_Event . . . The Railways has opened two helplines in LOC_Event 044 25357398 and 044 64502416 and one in Bangalore 080 22876288 . . . PTI adds that one person has been detained in connection with the blast . . . -LRB- With additional reporting by S. Vijay Kumar -RRB- . A 24-Year-old woman software engineer was killed and 14 people injured when two low-intensity bombs went off in quick succession in two coaches ( S4 , S5 ) of the Bangalore-Guwahati superfast express train at the LOC_Event on Thursday morning . Officials said all the injured , including two who underwent surgery , are in a stable condition . . . ALSO READ : TCS staffer who died was going home to get engaged . . The train was running an hour-and-a-half late when it pulled into platform 9 at LOC_Event at 7.05 am . The first blast occurred about 10 minutes later . It was followed by a second blast just minutes after , triggering panic among the passengers . . . Tamil Nadu intelligence chief DGP Anoop Jaiswal told The Indian Express that low-intensity IED fitted in pipes , triggered by a timer device was suspected to have been used . Officials pointed to the use of an ammonium nitrate-based explosive . . . LOC_Event may not have been the target because the train was running late . Some other location could have been the target , said Tamil Nadu DGP K Ramanujam . Jaiswal said there were no alerts about a possible terror strike , adding that any speculation at the moment was premature . . . Sources said a passenger was detained on suspicion as he had provided a false name and address while booking his ticket . A senior Bangalore Police officer said CCTV footage showed the suspect roaming around in the Bangalore station on Wednesday . . . READ : Security enhanced in Delhi and Rajasthan after blasts The victim has been identified as Swathi Parachuri , 24 , a software engineer with TCS Bangalore . Swathi , who was in the S5 coach , was on her way home to Guntur , Andhra Pradesh . . . Two of the injured , Sumanto Devanath , 37 , and an unidentified passenger , are said to be serious but stable . Barring one passenger who had injuries on his neck , the rest suffered injuries on their legs . One of the injured , A Anjaneyalu from Ongole , Andhra Pradesh , a software engineer working in Bangalore , said he was lying down on his berth when the explosion hurt both his legs . . . All the injured were rushed to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital which is near the station . We have specialists attending to the patients . The condition of all the injured is stable , said Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan . The blasts damaged three coaches S3 , S4 and S5 . The train finally left the station at 12:15 pm . We have CCTV footage which will be checked by investigators , said zonal general manager Rakesh Mishra . . . While investigators said it was too early to draw conclusions about the module and the group involved in Thursdays blast , Intelligence agencies are also looking at the arrest of an alleged ISI spy , Mohammed Zakir Hussain , 37 , a Sri Lankan Tamil who was nabbed by the Tamil Nadu police on Tuesday night . Hussain is reported to have claimed that his handler was Amir Zubair Siddiqui , a Pakistani diplomat posted in Colombo who is already under investigation by the NIA . . . A team from LOC_Event was rushed to gather details about the blasts . We have also learnt about the claims made by the arrested ISI spy and sought details from the Tamil Nadu Police regarding his disclosures on the role of the diplomat . It is possible that a different module was engaged for carrying out the train blasts . We are working with the state police and looking at all possible clues , said a NIA official . . . As preliminary reports suggest that the bombs were not meant to explode at the LOC_Event , it is possible that they were being couriered to some other place when the explosion took place . However , it will be too early to comment on the targets and reasons , he said . . . The NIA has already sent a request to Sri Lanka for examining Siddiqui , who is suspected to have tasked several modules to carry out a recce of vital installations in south India . The NIA had also named Siddiqui in an FIR last year following the arrest of Thameem Ansari , a resident of Tamil Nadu . . . Hussain , a resident of Kandy in Sri Lanka , was alleged to have been given the task of circulating counterfeit currency in Tamil Nadu . At the time of his arrest , he was reportedly carrying fake notes and other classified documents . . . Meanwhile , the political echoes of the blasts were soon heard in the state . State BJP president Pon Radhakrishnan alleged a plot against the partys prime ministerial candidate , Narendra Modi , linking the blasts to Modis campaign rallies in south Andhra Pradesh on Thursday . However , even if the train was running on time , it would have been near the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border , still some distance and time away from the campaign venues . . . DMK president M Karunanidhi said the blasts could have been prevented if the police had acted promptly after arresting Hussain . But Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa , who is in charge of the police department , is back in Kodanadu , said Karunanidhi . The CM has been at her Kodanadu Estate residence in the Nilgiris district since last Sunday . . . Other parties like the DMDK , PMK and MDMK also condemned the incident and alleged that the state government had failed to ensure the safety of the people . . . Jayalalithaa , who has ordered an inquiry by the Crime Branch CID , asked the people of Tamil Nadu not to panic and assured that the police were stepping up security across the state . She also deputed two ministers and senior officials to supervise the relief measures . Security has been beefed up across the state , especially at sensitive installations including airports , railway stations and major bus terminals . In Bangalore , Additional DGP M N Reddi said security has been beefed up in all railway stations in the state . There is an alert in the state following the blasts Investigations should reveal if the explosives were loaded in the train in Bangalore or Nanded . We have collected the CCTV footage , he said . . . with ENS , Bangalore . . READ : Leaders on campaign trail condemn LOC_Event blast . . HELPLINE NUMBERS : 044-25357398 ( LOC_Event ) ,080 -22156553 ( Bangalore ) ,080 -22356409 ( Bangalore ) . . . CCTV footage shows a man alighting from the Guwahati-Bangalore Express in LOC_Event AFP photo LOC_Event : The Tamil Nadu police have released CCTV footage of a possible suspect getting off the Guwahati-Bangalore Express on which two blasts yesterday in LOC_Event killed a young woman and injured 14 others . -LRB- She Was About to Marry , Her Body Arrived Home -RRB- In the footage released by the Crime Branch of the state police , which is probing the twin explosions , the man is seen suspiciously alighting from the train just after it pulled into the LOC_Event Central Station early in the morning . He then runs away and is not seen getting back on the train in the video captured by cameras at the station.The police are yet to make any arrests in connection with the low-intensity explosions which the Centre reportedly wants to treat as a terror attack . But its offer to the Jayalalithaa government for a probe by the elite National Investigation Agency was today turned down . -LRB- Jayalalithaa Says No to Central Probe Into LOC_Event Blasts -RRB- As per initial investigations , there is no evidence to suggest that the bombs in the train were planted in LOC_Event . The explosions happened nearly 10 minutes after the arrival of the train , which was already running late by 90 minutes . Cops also say that the blasts would have happened in Andhra Pradesh had the train been on schedule . There has been speculation that the blasts were originally timed to disrupt Narendra Modi 's rallies in coastal Andhra Pradesh . The Tamil Nadu police , however , have dismissed this theory . -LRB- Narendra Modi 's Security Stepped Up After LOC_Event Blasts -RRB- But they did say there were similarities between yesterday 's blasts and the ones in Patna in October last year ahead of Mr Modi 's rally . Six were killed and nearly 80 were injured in the explosions which were allegedly masterminded by terror group Indian Mujahideen.DMK chief M Karunanidhi , Ms Jayalalithaa 's staunch rival , has criticised the state government , alleging the blasts in LOC_Event `` could have been averted if the police had properly questioned the recently arrested alleged ISI operative Sakir Hussein . '' -LRB- Read more ... -RRB- Hussein , a Sri Lankan national , was arrested on Tuesday and has been charged under provisions of the Unlawful Activities -LRB- Prevention -RRB- Act , 1967 . . byAaron Mannes , RK Raghavan , Animesh Roul , VS Subrahmanian . . As we file this column we have the news of twin blasts on the LOC_Event - LOC_Event this morning , within minutes of its arrival at Chennai Central railway station . One woman passenger - a TCS employee - was killed and several others injured . One person has been detained by the Tamil Nadu Police for questioning . . . Significantly , this incident comes just a few days after the arrest by the State Police of a suspected ISI operative . Interrogation of the two individuals in police custody could throw up some sensational facts on terrorist plans . We will have to await them rather than indulge in speculations , which may be wide of the mark . These developments are unfortunate if one considers the fact that , almost three weeks into the worlds biggest election , Indian security agencies have done an excellent job ensuring public safety , particularly countering terrorist threats . . . Spot of the blast on LOC_Event railway station . PTI . . The fact that there has been no major terrorist action in the country at a time when security forces are extremely stretched is undoubtedly a tribute to the administrations state of preparedness . There is however no room for complacence , as the LOC_Event train explosion reveals . This is the ideal time to reflect on the strategy and strength of the one most potent terrorist groups in the country that has often derived support from external foes , especially Pakistan . Our reference is to the Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) which has displayed some resilience despite setbacks in the form of arrests of a few of its leadership and reported differences within the hierarchy on future strategy . . . In September 2013 , the authors of this piece ( based on a computational model ) published predictions of IM attacks in the last quarter of 2013 . These predictions were proved accurate by the devastating attacks on an election rally in Patna featuring BJP Prime Minister candidate Narendra Modi . But a subsequent prediction by the authors in January 2014 forecasting attacks by IM during the January-May 2014 time frame has thus far been proven wrong although not for a lack of effort by IM to carry out attacks that disrupt the elections . Indians can be grateful for the extraordinary work by Indian security organizations in preventing IMs plots from being successful . . . In the last quarter of 2013 , Indian security officials were able to make several key arrests of IM operatives . In early November , following the attack on Modis election rally in Patna , several IM operatives were arrested . Additional operatives of IMs predecessor organization , the Students Islamic Movement of India as well as a few IM men were also arrested in December 2013 . A predictive behavioral model of IM attacks suggested that IM often carries out attacks on public sites ( usually markets ) a few months after arrests of some IM members . . . Moreover , in November 2013 , IM released video clips and imagery of the Babri Masjid demolition and the post-Godhra riots in Gujarat the goal of these releases may have been to inflame Indian Muslim sentiment or to encourage IM operatives . The behavioral model of IM found that , when IM engages in a publicity campaign , attacks follow a few months later . Attacks by IM also follow about half a year after any signs of improvements in Indo-Pak diplomatic relations . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh met with Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif in September 2013 . These data-points led our behavioral model to predict impending attacks in the January-May 2014 time frame . . . It is now clear that IM had carefully laid plans and took operational steps to carry out several such attacks during this time frame , proving the behavioral model correct . Indias security agencies carried out a series of arrests in March-April 2014 , breaking up several plots to attack a diverse set of targets . IM has reportedly targeted the Red Fort in Delhi , sending operatives to carry out physical surveillance . IM also had plans to carry out serial bombings in Jaipur and Pushkar targeting tourists , as well as the famous Rath Yatra festival in Puri . The Delhi Police Commission SM Srivastava is on record having described what was to come by way of planned IM attacks in the next few months . . . Opposition to Indias democracy has long been a fundamental tenet of IMs ideology . IM argues that Indias secular democracy can not protect Indias Muslims from the Hindu majority . An attack during the current election period has the potential to not only disrupt the free and fair conduct of the elections , but also to trigger an avalanche of communal violence . For IM , this would be a self-fulfilling prophecy , giving them further impetus to spread their radical message and expanding their appeal . While IM radicalism has had only miniscule appeal to Indias Muslim population , a well-organized and sponsored terrorist group requires only a relatively small cadre to spread enormous havoc . . . Thus , disrupting all potential terrorist plots has been a top priority for the Indian security establishment one that they have carried out spectacularly well . In just the past two months , at least five IM plots have reportedly been disrupted by Indian police , including highly symbolic operations against the Red Fort , specific operations against tourism-related targets , and specific operations against religious events . All of these had the potential to both exacerbate communal tensions as well as energize IMs cadres . . . The law enforcement success to date must not lead to complacency not only between now and the announcement of the election results but beyond . Weakened terrorist groups can be very dangerous , as they seek to rally their supporters ( and in the case of IM show their continued value to their sponsors ) with further attacks . With arrests of top leaders like Yasin Bhatkal ( IMs leader in India ) , Tehseen Akhtar , and Pakistani bomb-maker Waqas , who reportedly planned the Patna and LOC_Event attacks , their allies such as Lashkar-e-Taiba , and their Pakistani sponsors may strive to show that IM remains capable of executing deadly terror strikes . . . Reports of IMs intended targets are particularly worrisome . In the past , Rajasthan and Odisha have been ` hibernating grounds ' for IM militants , where IM has focused on building sleeper cells and engaged in recruitment and fund-raising activities , while generally carrying out relatively few attacks . If , as it appears , IM has chosen to activate their sleeper cells in these States , potentially jeopardizing their safe heavens , it is a sign that greater intelligence gathering and security sweeps are called for . . . Considering IMs powerful sponsors , it would be premature to assume that the organization has been de-fanged . Beyond maintaining their vigilance , Indian security forces should also continue to pursue the organizational reforms needed for effective counter-terrorism . Expanding intelligence capabilities to better collect , analyze , and disseminate intelligence is crucial . Improved intelligence cooperation between agencies at the federal and provincial levels is particularly important in connecting the dots to identify terrorist plots , and ensuring that local law enforcement officials have the information needed to prevent attacks . Indias security forces have had remarkable successes recently , but an enduring lesson of counter-terrorism is that effective terrorist organizations are learning organizations that adapt quickly . To continue keeping Indian citizens safe , the nations security services must do the same . . . Aaron Mannes and VS Subrahmanian are at the University of Maryland , Animesh Roul is with the Society for the Study of Peace and Conflict ( Delhi ) , and RK Raghavan is a former director of the CBI . All four are the authors of Indian Mujahideen : Computational Analysis & Public Policy ( Springer , November 2013 an Indian edition is also available ) . Twin blasts were reported at the LOC_Event central railway station on Thursday morning.One person has been reported killed and 12 others are injured , two critically.The deceased was identified as 22-year-old Swati from Guntur . . . Eyewitnesses said they heard two explosions on coaches S4 and S4 of the Bangalore-Guwahati Kaziranga express as it arrived at the LOC_Event railway station . . . The train arrived at 7.05 am and the explosions took place at 7.15 am.The train was on its way to Guwahati.One suspect who had been detained following the twin blasts may be released . . . The Railways has announced a solatium of Rs 1 lakh for the deceased and Rs 25,000 for seriously injured and Rs 5,000 for those who have sustained minor injuries . . The entire area is being sanitised.Intelligence Bureau officials have confirmed that the blasts at LOC_Event were an act of terror.Without naming any group , IB sources informed that going by the bomb composition and the manner in which they had been placed it was clear that the attack was aimed at killing more than one person and hence classifies as a terror act.The forensics team , meanwhile , has been able to ascertain some facts regarding the bomb . . . It is suspected that the bomb was triggered off by a mobile device.The nature of the injury sustained would indicate the presence of metal bombs packed into the bomb . . . The bomb was planted under the seat and hence the impact was borne by the seat . . . The train was originally supposed to reach LOC_Event at 5.30 am , but was delayed . . . The police say that if the intent was to cause an explosion then the accused could have done it anywhere . However , they waited for the train to arrive in LOC_Event to plant the bomb . . . No terror group has claimed responsibility for the attack so far , but several groups -- both political and religious -- are under the investigators ' scanner . No need for NIA here ; our cops will handle this : JayalalithaaThe Centre was forced to put on hold dispatch of teams of NIA , NSG and forensic experts to LOC_Event after the LOC_Event government spurned its help . . . LOC_Event , whose Chief Minister Jayalalithaa is strongly opposed to any interefernece from Central agencies on the subject of law and order , refused to take any help from the Centre , saying its police was well equipped to handle the blast probe . . . Following the stand taken by the LOC_Event government , the Home Ministry immediately put on hold sending teams of NIA , NSG and forensic experts to LOC_Event to help in the probe into the two blasts at LOC_Event railway station . . . Official sources said the Home Ministry had earlier directed the National Investigation Agency , National Security Guard and forensic experts to get ready to go to LOC_Event . . . While the NIA team was supposed to go from Hyderabad , the NSG and forensic experts were being readied in New Delhi . Jayalalithaa has meanwhile ordered a CB-CID probe and the state government conveyed to the Home Ministry that it was equipped to handle the investigation.Coincidence?Interestingly , the blasts come a day after the arrest of Zaheer Hussain , an agent of Pakistans Inter Services Intelligence who is a Sri Lankan national reporting to the Pakistan High Commission in Colombo.During interrogation , Hussain said he worked as a shoe exporter and visited LOC_Event several times to recruit and also plan blasts in Tamil Nadu.The police are expected to revisit his interrogation on Thursday.Image : A member of the bomb disposal squad examines the area next to the Bangalore-Guwahati Kaziranga express in which two explosions occurred.Photograph : Reuters . LOC_Event : A young woman techie was killed and 14 other passengers sustained bleeding injuries when two bombs , suspected to be IEDs with timers , went off in quick succession in adjacent compartments of LOC_Event Thursday morning . The blasts happened at about 7.14 in S4 and S5 coaches , within five minutes of the train arriving here from Bengaluru . The impact caused some damage to S3 as well . . . The deceased , Swati , 24 , worked for software major TCS at Bengaluru and was on her way home at Guntur in Andhra Pradesh . Her grieving parents rushed here and took the body to the native place by a government ambulance . She was to be married in two months . The injured , including a woman , were admitted in the Rajiv Gandhi memorial government general hospital across the road . All of them are stable , according to the doctors . They said most of the injured had pellet wounds and two suffered multiple fractures on legs . ( Read : LOC_Event blast kills Andhra Pradesh techie ; 14 hurt ) . . Investigators recovered ball bearings and pellets , besides traces of ammonium nitrate , nitro toluene and sulphur from the blast sites . Preliminary investigation indicated that four men carrying two cloth bags had boarded S4 and S5 as soon as the train arrived . Surveillance cameras have captured the visuals of them coming out empty-handed . We strongly believe they had left those bags under the seats in the two coaches and triggered the blasts from outside . We are examining what their motives could have been , a senior police officer said , adding that three men have been detained for questioning . . . Chief minister J Jayalalithaa in a statement assured the people there was no need to panic as security measures had been tightened . She ordered state crime branch CID police to probe the incident . Three labourers , including two migrants from Assam , were seriously wounded when a bomb was detonated in the storeroom where they were working on Thursday evening . They were employed by a trader , Devan Soram , who deals in scrap . . . Police sources said when the remote-controlled bomb was detonated , Kurab Boro and Arun Boro from Barpeta district of Assam and a local labourer Modhu Soibam were seriously wounded by the shrapnel . They are battling for their lives in hospital . No underground organisation has claimed responsibility for the blast . Police have registered a case . Suspected militants from the anti-talks faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom on Monday triggered two blasts near LOC_Event town in LOC_Event district . . . While one blast was triggered on the outskirts of LOC_Event town , another blast took place near a drain in the town . Both were low intensity crude bombs and there is no injury or any damage , LOC_Event Superintendent of Police A.P. Tiwari said . . . The police had tightened security across the state ahead of Republic Day , particularly after intelligence inputs that the anti-talks faction of the militant outfit might try to carry out subversive activities . . . Police also recovered an improvised explosive device from Jorhat town in Upper Assam Monday . . . The LOC_Event police , Army and other security forces have intensified counter-insurgency operations across the state , particularly along the Indo-Bhutan border and Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border , after the attack by the anti-talks faction of NDFB militants on civilians in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts Dec 23 last year that left over 80 people including women and children dead.IANS . Amid multi-tier security , Jammu and Kashmir Governor NN Vohra took the salute at the Maulana Azad stadium in Jammu with no untoward incident being reported from any part of the state.For the first time in a decade , mobile phone and Internet services were not disrupted in the Kashmir Valley as part of the security drill for the celebrations which took place at Bakshi stadium in Srinagar and other district headquarters.At three points along the Line of Control ( LoC ) , Indian and Pakistani troops exchanged sweets even though areas along the border in Jammu and Kashmir witnessed regular ceasefire violations and infiltration bids from Pakistan . In the oil town of of LOC_Event in upper Assams LOC_Event district , two low-intensity bombs exploded but no damage or casualty was reported.While one blast took place under dumped garbage near a railway track , the other occurred in a drain under the garbage there , Senior Superintendent of Police AP Tiwari said.In the state capitals , Governors took the salute at traditional parades marking the occasion when on this day in 1950 India became a republic . Chief Ministers unfurled the national flag as the states showcased the countrys cultural diversity at parades where smartly dressed contingents of security forces held march pasts . Colourfully decorated tableaux also displayed the rich cultural traditions . In his Republic Day speech , the J-K Governor said that cross-border factors were responsible for the hurdles in development of the state , even as he stressed on the need for maintenance of peace and public order for sustained growth . Two low-intensity bombs exploded in upper Assam 's oil town Digboi , in Tinsukia district , on Monday . . . This untoward incident took place when the nation was celebrating its 66th Republic Day . . . As per PTIreports , Senior Superintendent of Police AP Tiwari informed that the explosion had no impact on life or property till now . . . Of the two blasts , one took place near a LOC_Event under dumped garbage while the other occured in the garbage under the LOC_Event . . . The nature of the blasts suggest that the bombs were made of handmade explosives as they did not have much impact . However , investigations related to the explosions are on . . . Assam was on high alert after the Union Home Ministry warned of possible terror attacks ahead of the Republic day celebrations . Guwahati , Jan 26 : Suspected militants from the anti-talks faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom on Monday triggered two blasts near Digboi town in Tinsukia district . . . `` While one blast was triggered on the outskirts of Digboi town , another blast took place near a drain in the town . Both were low intensity crude bombs and there is no injury or any damage , '' Tinsukia Superintendent of Police A.P. Tiwari said . . . View Photos . . The police had tightened security across the state ahead of Republic Day , particularly after intelligence inputs that the anti-talks faction of the militant outfit might try to carry out subversive activities . . . Police also recovered an improvised explosive device from Jorhat town in Upper Assam Monday . . . The Assam police , Army and other security forces have intensified counter-insurgency operations across the state , particularly along the Indo-Bhutan border and Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border , after the attack by the anti-talks faction of NDFB militants on civilians in Sonitpur , Kokrajhar and Chirang districts Dec 23 last year that left over 80 people including women and children dead . . . . Two low-intensity bombs exploded at the oil town of Digboi in LOC_Event 's Tinsukia district today as the state celebrated the 66th Republic Day.No damage or casualty has been reported so far from the very low intensity blasts , Senior Superintendent of Police A P Tiwari said.One of the explosions took place under dumped garbage near a railway track and another in a drain under the garbage there , he said.It seems from the impact that the bombs were handmade with no impact , Tiwari said.Investigations are on , he said . . GUWAHATI : Two low-intensity bombs exploded at the oil town of LOC_Event in upper LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district today as the state celebrated the 66th Republic Day . . . `` No damage or casualty has been reported so far from the very low intensity blasts , '' Senior Superintendent of Police A P Tiwari said . . . One of the explosions took place under dumped garbage near a railway track and another in a drain under the garbage there , he said . . . `` It seems from the impact that the bombs were handmade with no impact , '' Tiwari said . . . Investigations are on , he said . Suspected militants from the anti-talks faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom Monday triggered two blasts near LOC_Event town in LOC_Event district . . . `` While one blast was triggered on the outskirts of LOC_Event town , another blast took place near a drain in the town . Both were low intensity crude bombs and there is no injury or any damage , '' LOC_Event Superintendent of Police A.P. Tiwari said . . . The police had tightened security across the state ahead of Republic Day , particularly after intelligence inputs that the anti-talks faction of the militant outfit might try to carry out subversive activities . . . Police also recovered an improvised explosive device from Jorhat town in Upper Assam Monday . . . The Assam police , Army and other security forces have intensified counter-insurgency operations across the state , particularly along the Indo-Bhutan border and Assam-Arunachal Pradesh border , after the attack by the anti-talks faction of NDFB militants on civilians in Sonitpur , Kokrajhar and Chirang districts Dec 23 last year that left over 80 people including women and children dead . . . -- Indo-Asian news Service . . ah/vip/bg . . . By Our Staff Reporter NEW DELHI , JAN. 6 . At least 23 people were injured in a blast aboard a stationary passenger train at the LOC_Event on Thursday evening . The explosion took place minutes after the Delhi - Shamli-Saharanpur passenger train arrived at platform No. 5 from the maintenance yard . The bomb , which was kept in a general compartment , fourth from the engine , was in all probability planted under seat No. 22 . According to unconfirmed eyewitness accounts , the police picked up at least three persons for questioning from the station soon after the blast . All were passengers waiting near the blast site . While none of them was believed to be directly involved , they were being questioned about events preceding the explosion . No terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the blast until late at night . Most of the victims were standing on the platform , waiting to board the train which was scheduled to leave an hour later . Some had already entered the ill-fated compartment . The medium-intensity explosion ripped apart the compartment , mangling and softening its inside and maiming the passengers . A crater , two feet wide , was formed where the device had been placed . The Railway Protection Force personnel were the first to react . At least nine of the injured were given first-aid on the platform itself . The rest were taken to Bara Hindu Rao Hospital and Shushruta Trauma Centre . No one had been injured seriously , the police said , adding that most of them were discharged from hospital later in the evening . Only one was kept under observation at Bara Hindu Rao Hospital . An explosive expert - part of the specialised Bomb Disposal Squad which had rushed to the spot - ruled out use of RDX in the explosion . `` RDX has the effect of shattering , shearing and cutting . There was no such sign in the compartment . The effect inside the train compartment was that of pushing and bending - as if pressure had been applied . So it does not look like a very sophisticated device . It seems a crude explosive had been used . '' The expert team also did not find any remnant of the bomb at the site . `` Nothing has been found so far . No remnant of a bomb , no remains of a timer device . '' The experts lifted evidence from inside the compartment and also from the railway track . The nature of the explosive would become clear only after forensic tests are conducted . The Deputy Commissioner of Police -LRB- Crime and Railways -RRB- , Mr. P.K. Srivastav , said it was impossible for the police to keep a check on passengers at railway stations . `` Extra men had been deployed but even then it is an uphill task , '' he added . . . By Our Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI , JAN. 6 . At least 23 people were injured in a blast aboard a stationary passenger train at the Old Delhi railway station on Thursday evening . . . The explosion took place minutes after the Delhi - Shamli-Saharanpur passenger train arrived at platform No. 5 from the maintenance yard . The bomb , which was kept in a general compartment , fourth from the engine , was in all probability planted under seat No. 22 . . . According to unconfirmed eyewitness accounts , the police picked up at least three persons for questioning from the station soon after the blast . All were passengers waiting near the blast site . While none of them was believed to be directly involved , they were being questioned about events preceding the explosion . No terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the blast until late at night . . . Most of the victims were standing on the platform , waiting to board the train which was scheduled to leave an hour later . Some had already entered the ill-fated compartment . The medium-intensity explosion ripped apart the compartment , mangling and softening its inside and maiming the passengers . A crater , two feet wide , was formed where the device had been placed . . . The Railway Protection Force personnel were the first to react . At least nine of the injured were given first-aid on the platform itself . The rest were taken to Bara Hindu Rao Hospital and Shushruta Trauma Centre . . . No one had been injured seriously , the police said , adding that most of them were discharged from hospital later in the evening . Only one was kept under observation at Bara Hindu Rao Hospital . . . An explosive expert - part of the specialised Bomb Disposal Squad which had rushed to the spot - ruled out use of RDX in the explosion . . . `` RDX has the effect of shattering , shearing and cutting . There was no such sign in the compartment . The effect inside the train compartment was that of pushing and bending - as if pressure had been applied . So it does not look like a very sophisticated device . It seems a crude explosive had been used . '' . . The expert team also did not find any remnant of the bomb at the site . `` Nothing has been found so far . No remnant of a bomb , no remains of a timer device . '' The experts lifted evidence from inside the compartment and also from the railway track . The nature of the explosive would become clear only after forensic tests are conducted . . . The Deputy Commissioner of Police -LRB- Crime and Railways -RRB- , Mr. P.K. Srivastav , said it was impossible for the police to keep a check on passengers at railway stations . `` Extra men had been deployed but even then it is an uphill task , '' he added . By Our Staff Reporter NEW DELHI , JAN. 7 . The Delhi police on Friday released a sketch of one of the men suspected to be involved in the bomb blast on the Saharanpur-bound Shamli Express at the LOC_Event railway station on Thursday . Police said the accused - who was wearing a grey Pathani suit with a white `` jalidari topi '' -LRB- sieved cap -RRB- was seen in the compartment shortly before the explosion . The suspect is said to be between 20 and 22 years of age , five feet six inches tall , thin built with a fair complexion and sporting a small beard . The Deputy Commissioner of Police -LRB- Crime and Railways -RRB- , Mr. P.K. Srivastava , said the sketch had been prepared with the help of inputs provided by three eyewitnesses . They told police that the suspect , along with two or three of his accomplices , had boarded the train with a cloth bag but alighted soon after . While alighting , he apparently did not have the cloth bag - in which he is said to have carried the explosive - in his hand . The police officer said that in all there were perhaps four young men of similar appearance present in the compartment a little before the explosions took place . `` Since they are not among the injured , nor among the eyewitnesses , we gather that they could have been responsible for the incident . '' . . By Our Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI , JAN. 7 . The Delhi police on Friday released a sketch of one of the men suspected to be involved in the bomb blast on the Saharanpur-bound Shamli Express at the Old Delhi railway station on Thursday . . . Police said the accused - who was wearing a grey Pathani suit with a white `` jalidari topi '' -LRB- sieved cap -RRB- was seen in the compartment shortly before the explosion . The suspect is said to be between 20 and 22 years of age , five feet six inches tall , thin built with a fair complexion and sporting a small beard . . . The Deputy Commissioner of Police -LRB- Crime and Railways -RRB- , Mr. P.K. Srivastava , said the sketch had been prepared with the help of inputs provided by three eyewitnesses . They told police that the suspect , along with two or three of his accomplices , had boarded the train with a cloth bag but alighted soon after . While alighting , he apparently did not have the cloth bag - in which he is said to have carried the explosive - in his hand . . . The police officer said that in all there were perhaps four young men of similar appearance present in the compartment a little before the explosions took place . `` Since they are not among the injured , nor among the eyewitnesses , we gather that they could have been responsible for the incident . '' . NEW DELHI , AUG. 10 . The Prime Minister , Mr. A.B. Vajpayee , said tonight that the car bomb explosion in LOC_Event was executed ` at the behest of Pakistan ' . ` This is yet another example of Islamabad 's sustained campaign of cross-border terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of India , ' Mr. Vajpayee said in a statement condemning the dastardly act . The Prime Minister said the State Government had been asked to provide adequate medical assistance to those injured . Conveying his heart-felt condolences to the families of the security personnel and Mr. Pradeep Bhatia , a photo journalist of The Hindustan Times , Mr. Vajpayee said , ` as in the past , and more recently on August 1 and 2 , innocent people have lost their lives in today 's explosion . ' Condemning such dastardly attacks on innocent civilians by ` those who refuse to tread the path of peace and have consciously chosen terror as a weapon ' he said , ` we will continue our battle against terrorism till such time this evil is destroyed . ' Pak . desperate : Farooq The Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister , Dr. Farooq Abdullah , said the blast showed Pakistan 's desperation to flare up violence to prevent the peace initiatives . Terming the militant act `` most barbaric '' , he said `` killing people and engineering blasts at crowded places will not the take ultras anywhere ... By such gruesome acts , they may be obliging their mentors across the border , but their acts are against the tenets of Islam and humanity . '' - PTI Blast horrific , says Britain LONDON , AUG 10 . Britain today described as horrific the bomb attack in LOC_Event and said it was ` very disappointed ' that the Hizbul Mujahideen called off its ceasefire . ' I am horrified by the news of today 's bomb attack in LOC_Event . Our thoughts are with the innocent victims of this latest attack , and their families , ' the British Foreign Office Minister , Mr. Keith Vaz , said in a statement here . ` As -LRB- the Prime Minister -RRB- Mr. Tony Blair made clear in a message to Mr. A.B. Vajpayee on August 4 , Britain fully supports India 's increased efforts to bring peace to LOC_Event . Violence and terrorism can not bring a solution to LOC_Event , ' he added . . . NEW DELHI , AUG. 10 . The Prime Minister , Mr. A.B. Vajpayee , said tonight that the car bomb explosion in LOC_Event was executed ` at the behest of Pakistan ' . . . ` This is yet another example of Islamabad 's sustained campaign of cross-border terrorism in LOC_Event and other parts of India , ' Mr. Vajpayee said in a statement condemning the dastardly act . . . The Prime Minister said the State Government had been asked to provide adequate medical assistance to those injured . . . Conveying his heart-felt condolences to the families of the security personnel and Mr. Pradeep Bhatia , a photo journalist of The Hindustan Times , Mr. Vajpayee said , ` as in the past , and more recently on August 1 and 2 , innocent people have lost their lives in today 's explosion . ' Condemning such dastardly attacks on innocent civilians by ` those who refuse to tread the path of peace and have consciously chosen terror as a weapon ' he said , ` we will continue our battle against terrorism till such time this evil is destroyed . ' Pak . desperate : Farooq . . The Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister , Dr. Farooq Abdullah , said the blast showed LOC_Event 's desperation to flare up violence to prevent the peace initiatives . . . Terming the militant act `` most barbaric '' , he said `` killing people and engineering blasts at crowded places will not the take ultras anywhere ... By such gruesome acts , they may be obliging their mentors across the border , but their acts are against the tenets of Islam and humanity . '' . . - PTI . . Blast horrific , says Britain . . LONDON , AUG 10 . Britain today described as horrific the bomb attack in LOC_Event and said it was ` very disappointed ' that the Hizbul Mujahideen called off its ceasefire . . . ' I am horrified by the news of today 's bomb attack in LOC_Event . Our thoughts are with the innocent victims of this latest attack , and their families , ' the British Foreign Office Minister , Mr. Keith Vaz , said in a statement here . . . ` As -LRB- the Prime Minister -RRB- Mr. Tony Blair made clear in a message to Mr. A.B. Vajpayee on August 4 , Britain fully supports India 's increased efforts to bring peace to Kashmir . Violence and terrorism can not bring a solution to Kashmir , ' he added . THE CAR BOMB blast in LOC_Event on Thursday , wherein over 10 persons including a photo journalist were killed and twice that number injured , proclaims loud and clear that it is back to square one on the insurgency front in LOC_Event , what with the Hizbul Mujahideen also back in subversive business after a two-week ceasefire and a brief , even if palpably tentative , engagement with the Government of India in a ` peace ' process . The savage attack mounted by the Pakistan-backed militant elements has , not surprisingly , invited vehement condemnation from all sections of public opinion who have high stakes in seeing the end of turbulence in the Valley and the resolution , ultimately , of the vexed Kashmir problem in the overall geopolitical context . Interestingly , both the Hizb and the Lashkar-e-Taiba -LRB- which is suspected to have had a hand in the anti-peace initiative massacres earlier this month -RRB- have claimed `` responsibility '' for the horrendous episode ; it is likely that the HM is overly anxious to re-establish its ` credentials ' as a group of the Jamaati persuasion and demonstrate its ` striking ' power . Whichever outfit was culpable , going by the timing of the explosion , it looked as if the craftily-designed attack employing a combination of hand grenade and timer-linked IED was the militants ' answer to the Home Minister , Mr. L. K. Advani 's authoritative statement in Parliament only the previous day on the ` post-ceasefire revocation ' context . He had asserted that the security forces were ready to `` face the challenge and threat of renewed militancy '' and went on to claim that `` it is the militants who should worry '' . And elsewhere , the Defence Minister , Mr. George Fernandes , had held out the assurance that the Army 's `` preparedness remained unchanged '' , implying there was no lowering of guard on its part . A disturbing aspect of the official responses at the Central level to such terrorist killings in LOC_Event - or for that matter , militant attacks elsewhere in the country - is that they have almost invariably been restricted , by and large , to deploring the incidents and seeing the hand of Pakistan or its ISI in them . True to pattern , the Prime Minister , Mr. Atal Behari Vajpayee , has declared emphatically that the car bomb blast was executed `` at the behest of Pakistan '' and termed it `` yet another example of Islamabad 's sustained campaign of cross-border terrorism '' . The Government 's anxiety to expose Pakistan 's role in ` exporting ' terrorism in the name of ` jehad ' and build up international pressure against that country does make a lot of political and diplomatic sense . Given the volume of hard evidence that is already available on this count , one wonders whether the political establishment in New Delhi should need to be pressing that point at every conceivable opportunity as it seems to be doing and , in the process , let that objective become an obsession of sorts . The rhetoric of the kind being dished out by the powers that be will not amount to much in fighting the militants on the ground . From this standpoint , it is imperative to evolve an effective counter strategy , which envisages a judicious deployment of the Army and other security forces , strengthening of the intelligence system and better coordination among the various agencies involved in the anti-insurgency operations , not to speak of keeping proper vigil on the borders . Of relevance here are the gaping holes the LOC_Event conflict had exposed in the country 's intelligence , reconnaissance and surveillance networks . With Independence Day - an occasion the subversive forces look forward to for mounting a major strike - just a few days away , the civil administration and the defence authorities need to get their act together if the nation is not to witness the likes of the LOC_Event and LOC_Event episodes or worse yet again . The multi-pronged endeavour to frustrate the militants ' attempts to kill or otherwise strike terror should continue alongside the moves for finding a political solution through a constructive dialogue with various groups and interests concerned . . . THE CAR BOMB blast in Srinagar on Thursday , wherein over 10 persons including a photo journalist were killed and twice that number injured , proclaims loud and clear that it is back to square one on the insurgency front in Jammu and Kashmir , what with the Hizbul Mujahideen also back in subversive business after a two-week ceasefire and a brief , even if palpably tentative , engagement with the Government of India in a ` peace ' process . The savage attack mounted by the Pakistan-backed militant elements has , not surprisingly , invited vehement condemnation from all sections of public opinion who have high stakes in seeing the end of turbulence in the Valley and the resolution , ultimately , of the vexed Kashmir problem in the overall geopolitical context . Interestingly , both the Hizb and the Lashkar-e-Taiba -LRB- which is suspected to have had a hand in the anti-peace initiative massacres earlier this month -RRB- have claimed `` responsibility '' for the horrendous episode ; it is likely that the HM is overly anxious to re-establish its ` credentials ' as a group of the Jamaati persuasion and demonstrate its ` striking ' power . . . Whichever outfit was culpable , going by the timing of the explosion , it looked as if the craftily-designed attack employing a combination of hand grenade and timer-linked IED was the militants ' answer to the Home Minister , Mr. L. K. Advani 's authoritative statement in Parliament only the previous day on the ` post-ceasefire revocation ' context . He had asserted that the security forces were ready to `` face the challenge and threat of renewed militancy '' and went on to claim that `` it is the militants who should worry '' . And elsewhere , the Defence Minister , Mr. George Fernandes , had held out the assurance that the Army 's `` preparedness remained unchanged '' , implying there was no lowering of guard on its part . A disturbing aspect of the official responses at the Central level to such terrorist killings in Jammu and Kashmir - or for that matter , militant attacks elsewhere in the country - is that they have almost invariably been restricted , by and large , to deploring the incidents and seeing the hand of Pakistan or its ISI in them . True to pattern , the Prime Minister , Mr. Atal Behari Vajpayee , has declared emphatically that the car bomb blast was executed `` at the behest of Pakistan '' and termed it `` yet another example of Islamabad 's sustained campaign of cross-border terrorism '' . . . The Government 's anxiety to expose Pakistan 's role in ` exporting ' terrorism in the name of ` jehad ' and build up international pressure against that country does make a lot of political and diplomatic sense . Given the volume of hard evidence that is already available on this count , one wonders whether the political establishment in New Delhi should need to be pressing that point at every conceivable opportunity as it seems to be doing and , in the process , let that objective become an obsession of sorts . The rhetoric of the kind being dished out by the powers that be will not amount to much in fighting the militants on the ground . From this standpoint , it is imperative to evolve an effective counter strategy , which envisages a judicious deployment of the Army and other security forces , strengthening of the intelligence system and better coordination among the various agencies involved in the anti-insurgency operations , not to speak of keeping proper vigil on the borders . Of relevance here are the gaping holes the Kargil conflict had exposed in the country 's intelligence , reconnaissance and surveillance networks . With Independence Day - an occasion the subversive forces look forward to for mounting a major strike - just a few days away , the civil administration and the defence authorities need to get their act together if the nation is not to witness the likes of the Pahalgam and Srinagar episodes or worse yet again . The multi-pronged endeavour to frustrate the militants ' attempts to kill or otherwise strike terror should continue alongside the moves for finding a political solution through a constructive dialogue with various groups and interests concerned . LOC_Event , Aug 10 In the first major strike after the withdrawal of ceasefire , suspected Hizbul Mujahideen militants today triggered a powerful car bomb blast , killing 12 persons including 10 policemen and a photographer of a national daily in a decoy grenade attack here . . . Eyewitnesses put the death toll at 14 , including 12 securitymen , in the blast which Army experts believed was triggered by PETN chemical explosive at the fashionable Residency Road . . . The policemen killed were identified as Sub-Inspector Mohammed Yaqoob and constables Imtiyaz Ahmad , Nissar Ahmad , Jan Mohammad , Devinder Singh , Nissar Ahmad , Bodh Raj and Mohammad Ashraf . . . Army experts said PETN explosive was believed to be used in triggering the explosion . . . The white Ambassador car bearing number JK01B-9001 used in the blast is believed to have been stolen one , official sources said . . . Deputy Superintendent of Police Kuldip Sharma and Delhi-based photographer Pradip Kumar Bhatia were among the killed in the blast which occurred at 12.30 p.m. Mr Sharma and Mr Bhatia were injured and died in the hospital later . . . Two police officers , including a Superintendent of Police Pankaj Saxena , an Army Major and six photo-journalists and TV cameramen were among the injured when an explosive-laden white Ambassador car , believed to be a stolen one , blew up . . . An official spokesman said the car bomb went off 15 minutes after a grenade was exploded by militants near Kothibagh police station after which senior police officials and mediapersons rushed to the spot . . . As the officers inspected the grenade attack site , the car parked in a lane blew up , killing nine policemen on the spot , the spokesman said . . . The police said a shopkeeper , Bashir Ahmad Gandroo , died of cardiac arrest following the deafening sound of the blast . . . The injured included mostly police personnel , securitymen and press photographers who had gone to the spot after the grenade explosion . Among the photojournalists injured were Amin War , I Tariq , H.U. Naqash , ( Asian Age ) , Rafiq Manzoor , Fayaz Kabli and Bilal Bhat . Bilal Bhat ( ANI ) and Fayaz Kabli of Reuters were later discharged from SMHS Hospital and Soura Medical Institute , respectively . . . Others are undergoing treatment at Soura Medical Institute . . . Eyewitnesses said the explosion took place in a white Ambassador car parked near the SBI gate that was being searched by the police and Army personnel after the grenade explosion . . . The bodies of those killed are kept at the police control room . The body of Pradeep Bhatia , photo-journalist of the Hindustan Times will be sent to Delhi tomorrow . . . Journalists have expressed shock . . PTI adds : Two top militants were killed in an exchange of fire with the security forces in Ramkote area of Kathua district on Wednesday night , official sources said . . . An infiltration bid was foiled in Noushera when the security forces gunned down a top ultra . . . Militants threw grenades at the house of counter insurgent Abdul Rehman Padroo at LOC_Event in LOC_Event district killing his mother on the spot and injuring five other family members . . . BARAMULA ( UNI ) : At least seven houses were reduced to a rubble and five partially damaged in artillery and mortar shelling by Pakistani troops in Karnah sector early this morning . . . Official sources said Pakistani troops resorted to unprovoked shelling from across the border , targeting civilian areas and security installations . . . A dozen houses were hit by shells in Umar Rahi village near the Line of Control . Mukhtar Ahmad in Srinagar . . One civilian and a Border Security Force jawan were killed and six others injured in an exchange of fire between militants and security forces in LOC_Event Thursday evening . . . The skirmish followed close on the heels of two bomb blasts in Srinagar early in the day that killed 10 people , including a journalist , and left 27 others injured . . . The blasts were the first major terrorist strike after the Hizbul Mujahideen withdrew its cease-fire offer on Tuesday . . . Complete coverage . . Back to top . . Tell us what you think of this report . WHAT HAPPENED AT the Red Fort last week and Monday 's car bomb blast near the Army headquarters in LOC_Event are only to be expected at this juncture . The first anniversary of the hijack of an Indian Airlines plane to Kandahar has gone by and the ceasefire in LOC_Event has been extended for a month by the Prime Minister . The militants opposed to the ceasefire and the proposed dialogue with Kashmiri groups were bound to have their say at this juncture . True , the Red Fort may not be the fort it was under Shah Jehan . But it is still a symbol of India 's power and continues to be the venue of the annual Independence Day address by the Prime Minister . Some of the army divisions are housed in the area and top officers , including those who have served recently in LOC_Event , reside in the huge complex . It is also a bazaar and tourist spot , all rolled into one . What remains unclear still is whether the two militants , who sneaked into the Red Fort last Friday and killed three persons , including two soldiers , had a bigger agenda . Was their mission foiled by these intruders on their path ? Perhaps they could have come with a bigger agenda to create panic in the national capital . But their brazen entry into the Red Fort and the gunning down of three persons were a clear signal to the Centre and meant a lapse in security as well as intelligence . The Delhi police have claimed a breakthrough in this case , with an encounter reported at Jamianagar in South Delhi in the wee hours of Tuesday . One Pakistan national has been killed and another taken into custody , the authorities declaring both of them members of the Lashkar-e-Taiba . Following up on the weapons left behind by the militants at Vijay Ghat , the police raided a residence in Jamianagar , where these two militants were holed up . It is not certain yet whether they were the militants actually involved in the storming of the Red Fort or were only associates in the plot . Only a thoroughgoing investigation can provide insights into this daring operation . One thing is clear . The security and intelligence agencies have not yet learnt their lessons . Despite the Kargil affair and the Subrahmanyam committee report , there is just no coordination among the various agencies . It is perhaps the worst in Delhi , where the defence services function independently , the Intelligence Bureau and the RAW have their own show and the Delhi police watch helplessly until they are called in to take up the investigation . They could not enter the Navy Chief 's residence or the Red Fort , until the Navy and the Army took their time to conduct their own inquiry . The car bomb explosion outside the highly-guarded 15 Corps headquarters in LOC_Event comes barely eight months after an attack in the same area . Two Pakistan-based militant outfits have claimed responsibility for this explosion , but it is still not clear whether there was a suicide bomber in the car or whether it was blown up with a remote-controlled device . Whatever the impact or whoever caused it , the message is the same - a bid to defeat the ceasefire and abort the nascent peace process . If the Centre remains committed to pursuing peace , it must ignore these attempts and focus on strengthening both security and intelligence . Protecting monuments and symbols of India 's power like the Red Fort must figure high on the Government 's priority . It is equally important to shore up security in all defence installations and headquarters . There are bound to be more challenges to the peace initiative . The Republic Day is round the corner . It may not be possible to thwart every militant attempt , but it is about time that the revamp of the security and intelligence agencies was taken up seriously by the Centre . The Group of Ministers , reviewing the Subrahmanyam committee report , must decide quickly and get into the action mode . . . WHAT HAPPENED AT the Red Fort last week and Monday 's car bomb blast near the Army headquarters in Srinagar are only to be expected at this juncture . The first anniversary of the hijack of an Indian Airlines plane to Kandahar has gone by and the ceasefire in Jammu and Kashmir has been extended for a month by the Prime Minister . The militants opposed to the ceasefire and the proposed dialogue with Kashmiri groups were bound to have their say at this juncture . True , the Red Fort may not be the fort it was under Shah Jehan . But it is still a symbol of India 's power and continues to be the venue of the annual Independence Day address by the Prime Minister . Some of the army divisions are housed in the area and top officers , including those who have served recently in Kashmir , reside in the huge complex . It is also a bazaar and tourist spot , all rolled into one . What remains unclear still is whether the two militants , who sneaked into the Red Fort last Friday and killed three persons , including two soldiers , had a bigger agenda . Was their mission foiled by these intruders on their path ? Perhaps they could have come with a bigger agenda to create panic in the national capital . But their brazen entry into the Red Fort and the gunning down of three persons were a clear signal to the Centre and meant a lapse in security as well as intelligence . . . The Delhi police have claimed a breakthrough in this case , with an encounter reported at Jamianagar in South Delhi in the wee hours of Tuesday . One Pakistan national has been killed and another taken into custody , the authorities declaring both of them members of the Lashkar-e-Taiba . Following up on the weapons left behind by the militants at Vijay Ghat , the police raided a residence in Jamianagar , where these two militants were holed up . It is not certain yet whether they were the militants actually involved in the storming of the Red Fort or were only associates in the plot . Only a thoroughgoing investigation can provide insights into this daring operation . One thing is clear . The security and intelligence agencies have not yet learnt their lessons . Despite the Kargil affair and the Subrahmanyam committee report , there is just no coordination among the various agencies . It is perhaps the worst in Delhi , where the defence services function independently , the Intelligence Bureau and the RAW have their own show and the Delhi police watch helplessly until they are called in to take up the investigation . They could not enter the Navy Chief 's residence or the Red Fort , until the Navy and the Army took their time to conduct their own inquiry . . . The car bomb explosion outside the highly-guarded 15 Corps headquarters in Srinagar comes barely eight months after an attack in the same area . Two Pakistan-based militant outfits have claimed responsibility for this explosion , but it is still not clear whether there was a suicide bomber in the car or whether it was blown up with a remote-controlled device . Whatever the impact or whoever caused it , the message is the same - a bid to defeat the ceasefire and abort the nascent peace process . If the Centre remains committed to pursuing peace , it must ignore these attempts and focus on strengthening both security and intelligence . Protecting monuments and symbols of India 's power like the Red Fort must figure high on the Government 's priority . It is equally important to shore up security in all defence installations and headquarters . There are bound to be more challenges to the peace initiative . The Republic Day is round the corner . It may not be possible to thwart every militant attempt , but it is about time that the revamp of the security and intelligence agencies was taken up seriously by the Centre . The Group of Ministers , reviewing the Subrahmanyam committee report , must decide quickly and get into the action mode . By Our Special Correspondent NEW DELHI , DEC. 26 . Senior Home Ministry officials as well as sources within the Intelligence Bureau declared themselves fully satisfied over the nabbing of the LOC_Event `` attackers '' this morning . `` It was an excellent operation , '' a senior IB official said . This sense of satisfaction was shared by top officials of the Vajpayee administration , and the information about the `` success '' was conveyed to the Prime Minister before he left on a holiday . Mr. Vajpayee was reportedly unhappy that the attackers were allowed to escape ; today , it was a very satisfied security establishment that told him that the score had been settled . There were , obviously , red faces after the LOC_Event incident . Defence Ministry officials were at the receiving end of a lot of snide remarks . But today 's `` success '' is being bandied about as the re-affirmation of the soundness of the basic security structure . It is believed that the Prime Minister was also briefed about latest developments in the car-bomb blast near the 15 Corps Headquarters in Srinagar . Security experts are still at a loss to figure out why such a large amount of explosives were placed in the car . According to available information , the culprits involved in the attack on Red Fort could have been apprehended within 24 hours of the attack , but a `` mechanical failure '' caused the loss of a crucial one hour , delaying the operation . The police were able to pin these characters down only after telephonic intercepts could be decoded . Senior intelligence officers were confident about the identity of the killed Lashkar-e-Taiba militant . Nor is there any doubt about the involvement of a Pakistani `` operative '' , who was running a cyber cafe in the area . Nonetheless , these incidents have not come as a surprise , and sources within the Vajpayee administration suggest that various outfits in Islamabad would be disappointed if they thought India could be so easily provoked into reconsidering the ceasefire strategy . The officials dismissed as `` a lot of hot air '' the threats issued by militant outfits in Srinagar that they could strike at the Prime Minister 's Office or residence . . . By Our Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI , DEC. 26 . Senior Home Ministry officials as well as sources within the Intelligence Bureau declared themselves fully satisfied over the nabbing of the Red Fort `` attackers '' this morning . `` It was an excellent operation , '' a senior IB official said . . . This sense of satisfaction was shared by top officials of the Vajpayee administration , and the information about the `` success '' was conveyed to the Prime Minister before he left on a holiday . Mr. Vajpayee was reportedly unhappy that the attackers were allowed to escape ; today , it was a very satisfied security establishment that told him that the score had been settled . . . There were , obviously , red faces after the Red Fort incident . Defence Ministry officials were at the receiving end of a lot of snide remarks . But today 's `` success '' is being bandied about as the re-affirmation of the soundness of the basic security structure . . . It is believed that the Prime Minister was also briefed about latest developments in the car-bomb blast near the 15 Corps Headquarters in Srinagar . Security experts are still at a loss to figure out why such a large amount of explosives were placed in the car . . . According to available information , the culprits involved in the attack on Red Fort could have been apprehended within 24 hours of the attack , but a `` mechanical failure '' caused the loss of a crucial one hour , delaying the operation . The police were able to pin these characters down only after telephonic intercepts could be decoded . . . Senior intelligence officers were confident about the identity of the killed Lashkar-e-Taiba militant . Nor is there any doubt about the involvement of a Pakistani `` operative '' , who was running a cyber cafe in the area . . . Nonetheless , these incidents have not come as a surprise , and sources within the Vajpayee administration suggest that various outfits in Islamabad would be disappointed if they thought India could be so easily provoked into reconsidering the ceasefire strategy . . . The officials dismissed as `` a lot of hot air '' the threats issued by militant outfits in Srinagar that they could strike at the Prime Minister 's Office or residence . At least eight persons , including one soldier , were killed in a powerful car bomb explosion outside the main gate of the heavily guarded LOC_Event cantonment in Srinagar on Monday afternoon . . . Police sources said that a suicide bomber drove an explosive-laden car to the entrance of the cantonment housing the headquarters of the 15 Corps before blowing the car up . . . The Jamiatul Mujahideen and the Jaishe Mahammadi , the outfit which Maulana Masood Azhar currently heads , have both claimed responsibility for the blast . The latter identified the bomber as Abdullahbhai , a resident of Birmingham in the United Kingdom . . The sources said the explosion killed eight persons , including the bomber , on the spot while 17 others , including eight security personnel , were wounded . . . Police sources said the car bearing licence plate DL-5C-5889 was snatched from Mohammad Mujtaba in downtown Srinagar earlier in the day . Mujtaba was abducted and released later in the evening by the car snatchers . . . Minutes after the explosion , Union Defence Minister George Fernandes arrived in Srinagar on a visit to the valley . Sources said immediately after his arrival , Fernandes drove to the local Hindustan Machine Tools factory and met the employees . . . The minister did not visit the Badami Bagh cantonment . He later returned to New Delhi . . . Public Relations Officer of 15 Corps Major Bharat Shahane told rediff.com , ` Going by the account of witnesses , there was one suicide bomber inside the car . We are verifying this information . ' . . Some of the civilians wounded in the incident were rushed to the army 's base hospital . . . The Kashmir range police chief , however , said that militants had parked the explosive laden car near the main entrance , which later exploded . . . Parking of vehicles is banned in the area after a suicide bomber drove a car laden with explosives up to the main gate on April 19 this year before exploding it . . . In November last year , then PRO of 15 Corps Major Purshottam and six soldiers were killed when a suicide squad of militants stormed the cantonment . . . The troops guarding the area , sources said , opened fire resulting in injuries to a few civilians . The injured jawans were rushed to the hospital inside the cantonment . . . The explosion set off a fire in an adjoining shopping complex . The fire engulfed several shops and fire tenders were rushed to the spot . . . However , witnesses alleged the fire was started by the security forces . Senior police officers , including Inspector General -LRB- Kashmir -RRB- Dr Ashok Bhan , were not allowed to visit the spot . . . Troops who sealed the area prevented the state 's fire services chief from visiting the spot . Soldiers in full battle gear cordoned off the area . No movement was allowed till late Monday evening . . . The traffic on the LOC_Event highway was completely disrupted and all south Kashmir bound vehicles were diverted to other routes . . . The blast comes days after the prime minister announced an one month extension in the unilateral ceasefire in J&K . . . Militants lobbed a hand grenade on a security picket of the Special Services Bureau inside the government press building . However , no one was injured . . . Later , SSB members allegedly roughed up scores of passers-by near the Lal Chowk bus stand . . . On Monday morning , militants lobbed a hand grenade on a Border Security Force picket at LOC_Event in Srinagar resulting in injuries to two civilians . . . Militants fired on a police patrol at village LOC_Event in Darhal sector of Rajouri district . The policemen returned the fire and in the gun battle , one special police officer was killed . . . Militants on Monday afternoon shot at and killed one person identified as Bilal Ahmed Dar in Lal Chowk . . . One militant was killed and an SPO wounded in a gun battle at village LOC_Event Top in LOC_Event district . . . COMPLETE COVERAGEGovernment initiated ceasefire in J&K . . Back to top . . Tell us what you think of this report . LONDON , DEC. 30 . Britain has launched an investigation to find out whether a man from Birmingham had carried out a suicide bomb attack in LOC_Event on Christmas day killing at least nine people including , six Indian troops . `` The British Foreign and Commonwealth Office is in touch with the Indian police authorities in LOC_Event through the British High Commission in New Delhi to confirm the report , '' an FCO spokesman said on Friday night . He said they were unable to confirm the details of the dead man , but were liaisoning with the Indian authorities . Media reports prominently claimed here that a `` bomber from Birmingham '' , 24-year-old Mohammed Bilal , operating under the name , Abdullah Bhai , rammed into a security post with a Maruti-load of explosives in Srinagar , killing himself and six Indian soldiers . Three Kashmiri students returning home to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr were also killed in the blast . `` Abdullah Bhai was named by Jaish-e-Mohammed , a Kashmiri militant group . We are in touch with the Indian police and are waiting for the results of their investigation . It is for the Indian police to investigate , '' the spokesman said . Referring to the proposed Anti-terrorism Act that might come into force from February 2001 , the spokesman said the U.K. Government was serious in curbing terrorism and that was why it was expanding the scope of terrorism laws and will punish those who incite terrorism `` wholly or partly '' outside Britain . The Terrorism Act 2000 would also take stock of weapons training and recruitment in Britain for terrorism purposes abroad , he said . The Times quoting Jaish-e - Mohammed , had reported that a British student was responsible for the bomb attack . The daily even published an image of a headline in Zarb-I-Momin , the Jaish newspaper , saying `` commander Bilal wreaked havoc in an Indian army headquarters through his daring attack . '' According to the report , Bilal was born into a Pakistani family in Birmingham and grew up into a night club - going lad until he became a `` born-again Muslim '' at 18 after `` seeing the prophet Mohammad in a dream . '' Meanwhile , the London-based Muslim group Al Muhajiroun , known as the `` voice , the eyes and the ears of the Muslims '' claimed that a British student from Birmingham was the suicide bomber . Sheikh Omar Bakri-Muhammad , group founder and judge of the Islamic court of the U.K. claimed that about 1,800 British Muslims took part in `` military service '' each year . `` We believe in a worldwide Islamic order and we recruit people at debates and talks at university campuses and mosques throughout the U.K. . We then invite them for a meal and a talk and explain the situation of Muslims worldwide and then recruit them , '' he said . `` They voluntarily agree to get military education in the homeland and when they have fully affiliated themselves both mentally and physically they migrate permanently or stay in this country to engage themselves in creating ideological and political change , '' he added . - PTI . . LONDON , DEC. 30 . Britain has launched an investigation to find out whether a man from Birmingham had carried out a suicide bomb attack in LOC_Event on Christmas day killing at least nine people including , six Indian troops . `` The British Foreign and Commonwealth Office is in touch with the Indian police authorities in LOC_Event through the British High Commission in New Delhi to confirm the report , '' an FCO spokesman said on Friday night . . . He said they were unable to confirm the details of the dead man , but were liaisoning with the Indian authorities . . . Media reports prominently claimed here that a `` bomber from Birmingham '' , 24-year-old Mohammed Bilal , operating under the name , Abdullah Bhai , rammed into a security post with a Maruti-load of explosives in LOC_Event , killing himself and six Indian soldiers . Three Kashmiri students returning home to celebrate Eid-ul-Fitr were also killed in the blast . . . `` Abdullah Bhai was named by Jaish-e-Mohammed , a Kashmiri militant group . We are in touch with the Indian police and are waiting for the results of their investigation . It is for the Indian police to investigate , '' the spokesman said . . . Referring to the proposed Anti-terrorism Act that might come into force from February 2001 , the spokesman said the U.K. Government was serious in curbing terrorism and that was why it was expanding the scope of terrorism laws and will punish those who incite terrorism `` wholly or partly '' outside Britain . The Terrorism Act 2000 would also take stock of weapons training and recruitment in Britain for terrorism purposes abroad , he said . . . The Times quoting Jaish-e - Mohammed , had reported that a British student was responsible for the bomb attack . . . The daily even published an image of a headline in Zarb-I-Momin , the Jaish newspaper , saying `` commander Bilal wreaked havoc in an Indian army headquarters through his daring attack . '' . . According to the report , Bilal was born into a Pakistani family in Birmingham and grew up into a night club - going lad until he became a `` born-again Muslim '' at 18 after `` seeing the prophet Mohammad in a dream . '' . . Meanwhile , the London-based Muslim group Al Muhajiroun , known as the `` voice , the eyes and the ears of the Muslims '' claimed that a British student from Birmingham was the suicide bomber . . . Sheikh Omar Bakri-Muhammad , group founder and judge of the Islamic court of the U.K. claimed that about 1,800 British Muslims took part in `` military service '' each year . `` We believe in a worldwide Islamic order and we recruit people at debates and talks at university campuses and mosques throughout the U.K. . We then invite them for a meal and a talk and explain the situation of Muslims worldwide and then recruit them , '' he said . . . `` They voluntarily agree to get military education in the homeland and when they have fully affiliated themselves both mentally and physically they migrate permanently or stay in this country to engage themselves in creating ideological and political change , '' he added . . . - PTI . By Our Staff Correspondent DEHRA DUN , JAN. 26 . Republic Day celebrations in Uttaranchal were marred by a bomb explosion aboard a bus at the Rishikesh bus stand around 2 a.m. today . Driver Karam Vir Singh and conductor Prem Singh Mallick were killed on the spot . Consequently , a red alert was sounded and intensive checking of all vehicles ordered across Uttaranchal and western Uttar Pradesh . The explosion could have been triggered by a time device . The target must have been a larger number of persons but the designs of the criminals were foiled as the bus from Delhi , reached Rishikesh before schedule around 1-30 a.m. , a senior official said . An adjoining bus was also damaged and its driver and conductor received minor injuries . Ill-timed dance In Dehra Dun , a dance by the Minister of State for Culture and Sports , Mr. Narain Singh Rana , at the Republic Day celebrations on the Parade Ground came in for criticism from people who wondered why he did so despite knowing about the death of two persons in the bomb blast . Tableaux of the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam , the G. B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology , the Eco Task Force and the Bharat Heavy Electricals were appreciated by all as the Governor of the newborn - State , Mr. S. S. Barnala , took the salute at an impressive march-past by school children , police and para-military forces . . . By Our Staff Correspondent . . DEHRA DUN , JAN. 26 . Republic Day celebrations in Uttaranchal were marred by a bomb explosion aboard a bus at the Rishikesh bus stand around 2 a.m. today . Driver Karam Vir Singh and conductor Prem Singh Mallick were killed on the spot . . . Consequently , a red alert was sounded and intensive checking of all vehicles ordered across Uttaranchal and western Uttar Pradesh . . . The explosion could have been triggered by a time device . The target must have been a larger number of persons but the designs of the criminals were foiled as the bus from Delhi , reached Rishikesh before schedule around 1-30 a.m. , a senior official said . . . An adjoining bus was also damaged and its driver and conductor received minor injuries . . . Ill-timed dance . . In Dehra Dun , a dance by the Minister of State for Culture and Sports , Mr. Narain Singh Rana , at the Republic Day celebrations on the Parade Ground came in for criticism from people who wondered why he did so despite knowing about the death of two persons in the bomb blast . . . Tableaux of the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam , the G. B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology , the Eco Task Force and the Bharat Heavy Electricals were appreciated by all as the Governor of the newborn - State , Mr. S. S. Barnala , took the salute at an impressive march-past by school children , police and para-military forces . Two persons were killed when a bomb exploded in a bus at LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Friday morning , police said in LOC_Event . . . The bus driver and conductor were blown to pieces in the blast which occurred at around 2 am , superintendent of police S S Bhagel said . . . The explosion occurred after the passengers had alighted , he said.Bureau Report . The special cell of Delhi Police on Friday began investigations into the LOC_Event twin blasts case amidst a claim by the pro-Pakistan terrorist outfit Hizbul Muzahideen that its activists carried out the explosions in the heart of the Capital on Wednesday . . . Deputy Commissioner of Police ( special branch ) Balaji Shrivastav told UNI that they would look into the Hizbul claim and track down the culprits in course of time . . . The Hizbul Muzahideen issued a statement in Srinagar earlier in the day , claiming responsibility for the blasts . It said the blast were intended to convey to the Vajpayee government that Mujahideen can strike at will anywhere across India . . . Delhi police had entrusted its special cell with the probe into the case , suspecting the involvement of some terrorist organisation . . . Talking to UNI , joint commissioner of police ( LOC_Event ) Suresh Roy did not rule out the possibility of Hizbul Muzahideen or the Jammu and Kashmir Islamic Front ( JKIF ) being behind the low intensity blasts near the south block , housing the Prime Minister ` s office and Sena Bhawan , the army headquarters . However , he said , the special cell would soon be able to identify the outfit responsible for the crime after its investigations . . . Mr Roy , who had a meeting with the LOC_Event Commissioner of Police Ajai Raj Sharma to review the law and order situation in the capital , said security arrangements had been further intensified in the all important Raisina Hill area where the Rashtrapati Bhawan , the south block and the north block -- the seat of the government were located , Mr Roy said . A high-level alert and extra vigilance was being maintained to prevent recurrence of such incidents in the area which had been targeted twice by suspected terrorist outfits in about a month ` s period . On April 10 , a crude bomb was recovered in the parking place of the north block . Mr Roy said a separate parking place would be made available for the vehicles of the visitors to the north and south blocks which were now parked in the open stretch of the Raisina Hill , making the area highly vulnerable . . . He said that army had also been asked to be on the alert in view of the heightened threat of attacks in the capital by ISI-backed terrorist outfits . . . Bureau Report . New Delhi , May 9 A week after a crude bomb was discovered in the famous Palika Bazar , two bombs exploded near LOC_Event in the heart of the Capital today , injuring a 56-year-old man . . . Mr R.P. Singh , who sustained splinter injuries in his chest and mouth , is recuperating in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital . . . The first explosion occurred at 3.07 p.m. at the parking lot of the LOC_Event , opposite LOC_Event . The second explosion took place at 3.14 p.m. in a garbage dumped under a neem tree near gate number two of the LOC_Event , just behind the Prime Ministers Office . . . The first bomb is supposed to have been kept on the carrier of a cycle at the LOC_Event . The cycle and a Hero Honda motor cycle were damaged . As the bombs exploded there was panic among the passersby and employees in various government offices located in the area . Top police officials and forensic experts reached the spot and the entire area was cordoned off . . . The investigators at the spot also recovered two timer devices , one nine volt battery and a detonator wire and lifted samples of the remnants . . . The security personnel detained a person from near the spot immediately after the blast and whisked him away . However , he looked like a Kashmiri . . . Anti-sabotage squads also sanitised the area to make sure that there was no other bomb planted in the high-security area . . . Mr R.P. Singh , an employee in the LOC_Event sustained injuries as he was standing near the cycle on which the bomb was apparently kept . The Joint Commissioner of Police ( LOC_Event Range ) , Mr Suresh Roy , said the blasts were of low intensity and were triggered with crude bombs similar to the one recovered from North Block on April 10 . . . While not ruling out the involvement of militants in todays bomb explosion , Mr Roy said : It is too early to name the militant group involved in the twin blasts . . . It may be recalled that soon after the January 21 Red Fort shoot-out incident the Pakistan-backed Lashkar-e-Toiba militant outfit had made an open threat to strike at vital installations in the Capital , including the Prime Ministers Office . . . Even as the Special Cell in tandem with the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police began a probe into the blasts , senior police officials expressed apprehensions that the anti-national elements could trigger more blasts in the Capital . . . An eye witness , Mr Kishan Arora , who is working in Sena Bhavan , said when the bomb exploded only one person was standing near the cycle . He fell down just after the blast . Though the explosion was not of high intensity we thought that there was something wrong . The next moment we saw the person standing near the cycle , lying on the ground . . . He said it is very difficult to find out the culprit as it is a public place . . . An Army official said only traffic is managed by the Army in this area . It is not responsible for the security . The Delhi Police is responsible for the security in the area . By Our Staff Reporter NEW DELHI , AUG. 12 . The Delhi police are on the look out for three young men , suspected to be behind the crude bomb blast at LOC_Event in South Delhi late on Saturday night . Two persons sustained minor injuries and two autorickshaws and a car were damaged in the explosion . Investigations have revealed that the three had boarded an autorickshaw driven by Manager Rai from Sarai Kale Khan and were bound for Sagarpur in South-West Delhi . Teams have been sent to Sagarpur and other places to trace them . A thorough check of hospitals and nursing homes is also being carried out to see if any person with explosion-related injuries has been admitted . While the exact sequence of events is still not clear , police believe that the explosive material , which was apparently being carried by one of the three , either fell accidentally or was dropped from the autorickshaw following which the explosion occurred . Police have for the time being ruled out the involvement of any militant organisation . `` The time and choice of place and the explosive material used do not point towards a conspiracy to create a major disturbance , '' a senior police officer said . Preliminary investigations into the type of material used have suggested the use of low grade explosives . `` Only nails and other shrapnel have been found , '' the police officer added . Meanwhile , the South Delhi police are zeroing on two possibilities . `` The explosion could be the result of the retaliation from the Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- after one of their functionary was arrested in a joint operation in the Capital recently , '' a district police officer said . Another possibility is that the miscreants might have decided to get rid of the explosive substance to evade detection . `` In view of the stringent security measures taken for Independence Day , they must have found it difficult to take the explosive material all the way to Sagarpur . So they dumped it at LOC_Event , '' the officer said . However , police are not ruling out the possibility of the explosive being used to manufacture a more lethal bomb to cause a embarrassment to the police in the run up to the Independence Day celebrations . Following the blast , senior police officers rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation . Only on Saturday , Delhi police had announced that there were threats from militant organisations , which also included `` fidayeen '' attacks by teams comprising women . Meanwhile , security in the Capital has been beefed up following the blast . Senior district police officials are patrolling the sensitive areas in the districts and conducting surprise checks at various places . The police presence in the district has also been increased . Police in the Capital have been put on high alert in view of the incident . . . By Our Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI , AUG. 12 . The Delhi police are on the look out for three young men , suspected to be behind the crude bomb blast at South Extension in South Delhi late on Saturday night . Two persons sustained minor injuries and two autorickshaws and a car were damaged in the explosion . . . Investigations have revealed that the three had boarded an autorickshaw driven by Manager Rai from Sarai Kale Khan and were bound for Sagarpur in South-West Delhi . Teams have been sent to Sagarpur and other places to trace them . A thorough check of hospitals and nursing homes is also being carried out to see if any person with explosion-related injuries has been admitted . . . While the exact sequence of events is still not clear , police believe that the explosive material , which was apparently being carried by one of the three , either fell accidentally or was dropped from the autorickshaw following which the explosion occurred . . . Police have for the time being ruled out the involvement of any militant organisation . `` The time and choice of place and the explosive material used do not point towards a conspiracy to create a major disturbance , '' a senior police officer said . . . Preliminary investigations into the type of material used have suggested the use of low grade explosives . `` Only nails and other shrapnel have been found , '' the police officer added . . . Meanwhile , the South Delhi police are zeroing on two possibilities . `` The explosion could be the result of the retaliation from the Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- after one of their functionary was arrested in a joint operation in the Capital recently , '' a district police officer said . . . Another possibility is that the miscreants might have decided to get rid of the explosive substance to evade detection . . . `` In view of the stringent security measures taken for Independence Day , they must have found it difficult to take the explosive material all the way to Sagarpur . So they dumped it at South Extension , '' the officer said . . . However , police are not ruling out the possibility of the explosive being used to manufacture a more lethal bomb to cause a embarrassment to the police in the run up to the Independence Day celebrations . . . Following the blast , senior police officers rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation . . . Only on Saturday , Delhi police had announced that there were threats from militant organisations , which also included `` fidayeen '' attacks by teams comprising women . . . Meanwhile , security in the Capital has been beefed up following the blast . Senior district police officials are patrolling the sensitive areas in the districts and conducting surprise checks at various places . The police presence in the district has also been increased . Police in the Capital have been put on high alert in view of the incident . At least 10 persons were injured tonight when a bomb exploded in a New Delhi-bound train from Bareilly in Moradabad district of LOC_Event , a Northern Railway spokesman said . . . The blast took place at around 8.05 p.m. in a sleeper class compartment of the Bareilly-New Delhi passenger train which was at the LOC_Event station . The condition of one of the injured was serious , the spokesman added . . . The coach in which the explosion took place was detached from the train before it resumed its onward journey . Senior railway officials rushed to the site with relief and rescue teams . PTI . At least 10 persons were injured tonight when a bomb exploded in a New Delhi-bound train from Bareilly in LOC_Event district of Uttar Pradesh , a Northern Railway spokesman said . . . The blast took place at around 8.05 p.m. in a sleeper class compartment of the Bareilly-New Delhi passenger train which was at the Chandausi station . The condition of one of the injured was serious , the spokesman added . . . The coach in which the explosion took place was detached from the train before it resumed its onward journey . Senior railway officials rushed to the site with relief and rescue teams . PTI . A three-member team of explosive experts of the National Security Guards -LRB- NSG -RRB- is investigating the nature and mechanism used in recent bomb explosions at LOC_Event and LOC_Event which left 12 persons injured , police said today . . . The NSG team , which arrived from New Delhi at Godhra on Saturday , is investigating the nature of the explosives used , how the devices were assembled and their mechanism , the Panchmahal Deputy Superintendent of Police , Narsimha Kumar has said . . . The team examined material gathered from the ` spots ' of two bomb explosions while the Forensic Science laboratory and the local bomb squads are also looking into the explosions , Mr. Kumar said . . . There is no breakthrough in the case despite interrogation of more than 60 persons rounded up since the two blasts , he added . . . A crude bomb explosion in a State transport bus at Godhra on October 15 , had left at least four persons , including the conductor injured , while in another explosion the next day , inside a bus terminus at Lunawada , at least eight persons were injured , two of them seriously . Police have picked up 25 persons for questioning in connection with the bomb blasts in the LOC_Event and LOC_Event bus stations both in the tribal-dominated Panchamahals district of central Gujarat in the last two days . . . A senior police official of the district , however , did not see any ` definite pattern ' in the bomb explosions and believed these to be acts of local anti-social elements trying to create panic . The bombs were crude ones not requiring expert handling . The official also disagreed that the blasts could have any links with the LOC_Event train carnage of February 27 as the time gap between the two was large . . . While the bomb that exploded at the LOC_Event on Tuesday last was planted in a bus , at LOC_Event , the explosion was on the platform and most of the injured were those who queued up in front of the drinking water pub . . . In the wake of the explosions , the State Transport Corporation is strengthening security in and around bus stations , particularly in the Panchamahals district . The crew have also been issued strict instructions not to stop the buses at any point other than specified platforms and maintain vigil on the movement of suspicious passengers . Ahmedabad , Oct. 16 : Godhra has put Gujarat back on the edge after two bombs went off within a span of 28 hours in the town that witnessed the train carnage and at a bus terminus nearby . . . At least eight persons were injured when a bomb exploded at the bus station at LOC_Event , 35 km from LOC_Event , this evening . The blast came a day after six persons were injured in an explosion on a bus at the LOC_Event . . . Panchmahal ( the district where LOC_Event is located ) superintendent of police Narsimha Kumar said there was a marked similarity between the two explosions . . . LOC_Event falls on the route of chief minister Narendra Modis controversial Gaurav Yatra , the fifth phase of which began today from Porbander , Mahatma Gandhis birthplace . The rath is scheduled to reach LOC_Event on October 19 . . . Police said the bomb planted in the terminus went off at 7.45 pm . The bus station building also houses several government offices . . . Tuesdays blast occurred soon after a state road transport bus coming from a nearby village rolled into the parking bay at LOC_Event . . . Almost all the passengers had alighted when the bomb went off , ripping out seats at the back , shattering window panes and damaging a tyre . . . Four persons standing beside the bus were hit by splinters . The condition of one of the injured , whose leg had to be amputated , is stated to be critical . AHMEDABAD : Two youths were lynched in the Kagdapith police station area on Monday . Besides , 10 people were injured when an explosive went off in a ST bus at LOC_Event , 40 km from the district headquarters Godhra in Panchmahals . . . Officials said the youths were stopped and then stoned to death . A charred body was also found near by , and it could not be spotted earlier as it was hidden under a vehicle . . . In the renewed violence , after a lull of four days , the toll in the past two days has been put at ten . Indefinite curfew continued in Dani Limda and Shahpur police station areas . . . The police lobbed teargas shells to scare away a crowd near a religious place at Mirzapur here , where some miscreants allegedly tried to burst two crude bombs to scare residents . . . Separately , the police said ten passengers were injured when splinters of a bomb hit them in a ST bus at LOC_Event . Three women and an infant were among the injured . . . The bus was halting at the ST stand on way to Malvan in Surendranagar district . Nearly 30 passengers were in the bus at the time , the police said . . . The police said a minute after a passenger left in haste , smoke came out of a bag between last two rows . . . `` Scared passengers on seeing the smoke ran for cover . But the device went off , and splinters hit ten of them , '' it said . As many as six messages of condolence have been sent to the Indian leadership by Afghanistan , following the bomb blasts in LOC_Event on Monday . . . While His Majesty Zaher Shah , Father of the Nation , has addressed his message to the Prime Minister , Atal Behari Vajpayee , the President , Hamid Karzai , has sent letters of condolence both to the President , A.P.J. Abdul Kalam , and the Prime Minister . . . Mr. Vajpayee has also received a letter from the first Vice-President , Marshal Qasim Fahim , the External Affairs Minister , Yashwant Sinha , from his counterpart , Abdullah Abdullah , and the National Security Adviser , Brajesh Mishra , from his counterpart , Zalmai Rassoul . . . In his message to Mr. Vajpayee , Mr. Zaher Shah said : ` Most regretfully , I have received information that the criminal terrorists undertook an anti-humanistic action in LOC_Event city of India which caused a lot of injury and the death of more than 50 persons . ' . . Expressing his condolences to Mr. Vajpayee and to the people of India , Mr. Karzai wrote : ` The people of Afghanistan also present their condolences to you and to the people of India . The Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan is fighting against these terrorist actions too . ' . . To Mr. Kalam , Mr. Karzai said : ' I pray that God Almighty may give patience to the grieved families . I hope that -LRB- the -RRB- international coalition against terrorism succeeds in removing the roots of these anti-human activities . ' . . The Sri Lankan President , Chandrika Kumaratunga , and the Prime Minister , Ranil Wickremesinghe , have also sent separate messages to Mr. Kalam and Mr. Vajpayee , on the LOC_Event blasts . . . In a letter , Ms. Kumaratunga said : ` We strongly condemn such acts of terror aimed at innocent civilians . We extend our solidarity to the Government and people of India in this time of crisis . ' . . Mr. Wickremesinghe , for his part , expressed shock and horror at the twin car bomb blasts in his message to Mr. Vajpayee . . . ` We condemn this senseless act of terror against innocent people . We extend our sincere condolences also to the Government and people of India . ' . The Mumbai Police on Friday claimed to have cracked the August 25 , 2003 twin blasts case with the arrest of four persons . The arrested include three persons from one family -- Syed Mohammad Hanif , 42 ; his wife Syed Fahmida Mohammand Hanif , 36 ; and daughter Syed Farheen Mohammad Hanif , 18 . . . . . These three , along with Hanif 's three-year-old daughter , had hired the taxi that was blown up at the Gateway of India . Complete coverage of the LOC_Event blastsThe police have handed over the three-year-old daughter to her grandmother . It was the description provided bythe taxi driver , who survived the blast , that helped the police find the suspects . The taxi driver , Shivnarayan Pande , is now being provided police protection . . . . . The fourth arrested , Arshad Shafique Mohammad Ansari , 27 , had hired the second taxi that blew up at LOC_Event , killing the driver . . . . . The police are still on the lookout for two more suspects and are confident of picking them up soon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Also Read . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Four arrested in LOC_Event blasts case'Police intelligence in LOC_Event is very poor '' The sound of the bomb still haunts me '45 minutes before the blasts , a warning ` There was no intelligence failure ' . . Incidentally , this outfit , which the police have termed as the Hanif group , was also responsible for the bomb blast at Ghatkopar on July 28 , 2003 , when a bomb was placed below the back seat of a bus , route number 340 . Then , the police said , Arshad and Farheen had boarded the bus and placed the bomb below the seat . . . . . . . This same outfit had also attempted to carry out a blast at SEEPZ -LRB- Santa Cruz Electronics Export Processing Zone -RRB- last year , but the explosive device failed . . . . . With the arrests , the police are clearly heaving a sigh of relief and are proud of having cracked the case in a week 's time . The media turned up in huge numbers when the police called the press conference , held in the office of LOC_Event Police Commissioner R S Sharma . Displayed on his huge table were gelatin sticks , alarm clocks , binding tape andshrapnel , all used by the Hanif group to make their bombs . . . . . LOC_Event Deputy Chief Minister Chhagan Bhujbal announced the arrests of the four suspects , and praised the police Crime Branch for their success . Crime Branch Unit 11 and Unit 9 were mainly responsible for cracking the case . . . . . Said a senior police officer , ` We arrested them a couple of days ago , but we made sure that they were the right people before calling this press conference , ' he said , and added testily , ` Otherwise , the media will be the first to castigate us . ' . . . . Asked if it did not amount to intelligence failure that this group was not arrested after the Ghatkopar blast , he said the reason was that after Ghatkopar , there was just no description of the couple who had boarded the bus . ` The police also need some clues when looking for people . This time , we were lucky to get a good description from the taxi driver and our men did the rest of the work , ' he said . . . . . THE arrests and interrogation of the four culprits has thrown light and revealed the politicised statements made earlier . The four arrested have no connection with any local outfit . When specifically asked whether SIMI -LRB- Students Muslim Organization of India -RRB- was involved , Bhujbal said , ` No . ' Then he added , ` So far . ' . . . . But while the involvement of local jihadi groups is being ruled out , the police were categorical in bringing to light the international links . They pointed out that Hanif , who is clearly the mastermind and key agent of the blast , was employed at the Hilton Hotel in Dubai as an electrician . . . . . The police said that after the Gujarat riots , he was ` indoctrinated ' in Dubai and returned to LOC_Event on September 14 , 2002 , with the intention of carrying out terrorist acts . On his return to LOC_Event , Hanif contacted Ashraf and the duo began carrying out the explosions , supported by Hanif 's wife and grown-up daughter . . . . . When asked who indoctrinated him , the police were unwilling to give a name or even a hint . But the aforementioned officer said that as per their information , they believe that the Dubai centre that ` indoctrinated ' Hanif received instructions from an outfit in Saudi Arabia , which in turn was commanded by an outfit in Pakistan . . . . . This officer said the involvement of the Lashkar-e-Tayiba was not ruled out , just that it was more roundabout . . . . . But what stands punctured is the so-called link between the Lashkar and SIMI , a link that had political overtones . . . . . ASHRAF told the police that they had formed the Gujarat Muslim Revenge Force to avenge the killings of Muslim during the Gujarat riots of early 2002 . Ashraf is a zari -LRB- embroidery -RRB- worker , based in Surat , southern Gujarat . . . . . But while the Gujarat riots affected Ahmedabad , Vadodara and central Gujarat , Surat was peaceful . So on what basis did Ashraf claim to be affected ? . . . . A second senior officer told rediff.com that when Ashraf was questioned why LOC_Event is being targeted if the motive is revenge for Gujarat , he apparently replied , ` Because the rich supporters of the Gujarat government are all based in LOC_Event . ' . . . . But a third senior police officer said in the final analysis , Gujarat was merely the fig leaf cover . ` Gujarat today is being blamed for everything , ' he said , ` It is too simple to assume that the only motive is Gujarat . It is like saying that if Gujarat did not happen then these blasts would not take place . But we know that would not be the case . These blasts are going to occur because the motive is far bigger . ' . . . . There has been the perception that the Gujarat revenge motive is being played to the hilt . When the blast occurred , Bhujbal 's first reaction then was to blame the blasts on Gujarat . Reason : all the blasts had occurred in Gujarati-dominated areas such as Ghatkopar and LOC_Event . The LOC_Event is an international symbol and a favourite tourist spot . . . . . But as the police revealed , the explosive for the LOC_Event blast was placed inside the bus at Andheri East , from where the bus begins its run , and timed to explode later . It was just a coincidence that it happened to be LOC_Event . And LOC_Event is one of LOC_Event 's most important commercial areas , and an extremely congested and busy area , where it is easy to slip in and out without anyone noticing . . . . . The police also said that the explosives were prepared at the residences of Hanif in Andheri West -LRB- northwestern LOC_Event -RRB- and Ashraf in Andheri East -LRB- northwestern LOC_Event -RRB- . The two , who lived in poor tenements , made the explosives from gelatin sticks that are available locally since gelatin is used for quarrying and other controlled blasts . . . . . There is as yet no indication that RDX was used . . . . . Asked about the use of RDX , Joint Commissioner of Police Dr Satyapal Singh said the police are still awaiting the report from the Central Forensic Laboratory of India , Chandigarh , and which would be considered final . . . . . The police said that Hanif originally hails from the Mangalore region -LRB- southwestern LOC_Event -RRB- while Arshad hails from the Bars Bareily district in Uttar Pradesh . . A special Prevention of Terrorism Act -LRB- POTA -RRB- court has awarded the death sentence to all three accused in the 2003 twin LOC_Event blasts at LOC_Event and LOC_Event . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Mohammad Hanif Syed , his wife Fehmida and third conspirator Ashrat Ansari were convicted for planting the bombs on August 25 , 2003 that left 54 dead and 244 injured . They had also planted a bomb on July 28 , 2003 in a municipal bus in suburban LOC_Event which killed two persons . The judge P R Puranik hearing the case observed that it had been proved beyond reasonable doubt they had committed heinous acts resulting in numerous deaths , PTI reported . Syed and Fehmida have been found guilty of planting the bomb in taxis at LOC_Event . Ansari delivered the bomb at LOC_Event . Special prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam has called it a '' rarest of rare '' case in which the trio had '' enjoyed their act of killing '' . Nikam said they had been unhappy with smaller blasts that resulted in low death tolls and hence used RDX for the twin blasts . This is for the first time that a married couple is being convicted by a POTA court for their involvement in carrying out blasts . After the sentencing , Fahmida broke down outside the court while her husband did not react and stood calm by her side . Ashrat said ` Is andhe kanoon se kya insaaf milega -LRB- what justice can you get when the law is blind -RRB- . Commenting on the verdict , Nikam said , ` We are happy that justice has been delivered . This would send a strong message to terrorists that they would get such punishment if they indulged in barbarous acts ' . ` Initially they had planted a bomb in a bus but since few people were killed , they decided to use powerful bombs on the instructions of Laskhar-e-Taiba , ' Nikam said . Nikam said Fehmida had played a major role in these bomb blasts . She not only planted a bomb in a bus on July 28 , 2003 , along with her husband 's friend Ashrat but also on August 25 , 2003 , she and her husband Hanif planted bombs in taxis at the LOC_Event . ` Fehmida had actively participated in the process of selection and approval of location of targets . Though Fehmida was a woman she was equally cruel as other accused in the execution of conspiracy , ' Nikam said . One bomb planted in a taxi went off outside the LOC_Event - the city 's most famous tourist attraction - killing at least 10 people and wounding dozens of others standing nearby . . . Another had exploded minutes earlier in a crowded LOC_Event , also in the south of the city , causing a huge number of casualties . There was no immediate claim of responsibility last night - but suspicion is likely to fall on Islamist extremists , possibly taking revenge for last year 's communal riots in the neighbouring state of Gujarat , where 2,000 Muslims died . . . The blasts follow a recent thaw in relations between Pakistan and India , which has accused Islamabad of supporting Islamist militants who have carried out previous attacks on Indian soil . . . Last night India 's Hindu nationalist prime minister , Atal Bihari Vajpayee , held an emergency cabinet meeting as police put the Indian capital , LOC_Event , and Gujarat 's riot-hit main city , Ahmedabad , on a state of high alert . . . Analysts warned that the blasts would damage already-strained relations between India 's majority Hindu community and the country 's 140 million Muslims . . . The first blast took place shortly after 1pm local time in the LOC_Event , LOC_Event 's packed gold and diamond market which had just opened . The bomb was hidden inside a taxi . . . It sent debris flying across a huge area , ripping into shops . More than 30 people were killed in the explosion . . . The second blast along LOC_Event 's crowded seafront took place four minutes later , shattering windows in the five-star Taj Mahal Hotel 200 metres away , which is used by the city 's wealthy elite and by Bollywood film stars . The taxi which contained the bomb had been dumped in a public car park . The blast left paving stones drenched with blood and littered with abandoned shoes . . . The hotel 's communications manager , Ravi Dubey , said no guests or foreign tourists had been hurt . `` This was a terrorist attack . It was too organised to be anything else , '' he said . `` They decided to strike at an elite area . '' . . Ingrid Alva , a public relations consultant who works near the Gateway , said : `` The building we were in shook and we heard a loud noise . I rushed out and saw the crowds at the Gateway of India . We saw some body parts lying around , before we were told to move away by the police . '' . . As hospitals struggled to cope with the wounded , police rounded up suspects , including a taxi driver . . . Last night police claimed they had also discovered a large amount of explosive concealed near a railway tunnel on the outskirts of LOC_Event . Around 100 detonators had been hidden along a busy commuter line at Igatpuri . . . The bombings bear a grim resemblance to a wave of explosions that shook LOC_Event in 1993 , killing 250 people . Those blasts were blamed on groups avenging Muslim deaths in Hindu-Muslim riots after the razing of a mosque at Ayodhya in northern India . . . Yesterday India 's chief archaeological body released a report that claimed a temple had existed at the disputed religious site long before the mosque . It was not clear last night whether the report and the LOC_Event blasts were linked . . . . At least48 people were killed and 150 injured in two blasts in LOC_Event -- one near the LOC_Event and the other at LOC_Event in busy LOC_Event area -- on Monday afternoon . . . . . . . . . . . Photo : Deepak Salvi . . Recent blasts in LOC_Event | Their bodies were black : Witness | Mkt Rpt : Sensex drops | Alert in Delhi | Intelligence indicates Lashkar hand . . Police sources said explosives concealed in two taxis went off in quick succession -- at 1305 IST at LOC_Event and a few minutes later at the LOC_Event . . . The injured were admitted to J J Hospital , G T Hospital and St George 's Hospital . . . A witness told our correspodent at LOC_Event in LOC_Event that he counted at least 15 to 20 bodies . . . Police Commissioner R S Sharma said the involvement of terrorists was suspected , but so far no group has claimed responsibility . . . Details about the nature of the explosive used are sketchy . The state government has sought the help of the Indian Army 's explosives expert and a team of the National Security Guards is also arriving from Delhi . . . . . The LOC_Event blast took place in the parking lot opposite the historic monument . The Taj Hotel 's lobby suffered damage in the blast . Awitness said glass was strewn all over the place . . . Our correspondent counted at least 10 damaged cars at the LOC_Event . The entire area was cordoned off within minutes of the blast . The road leading to the LOC_Event from the LOC_Event in LOC_Event sealed . . . The mobile network in LOC_Event collapsed just minutes after the explosions . There were reports that the network was shut to prevent rumour mongering . . . Analert has been sounded all over LOC_Event . . . Deputy Chief Minister Chhagan Bhujbal held a meeting with top police and civic officials at the government guesthouse Sahyadri andlater , along with Chief Minister Sushilkumar Shinde and Minister of State for Home Rajendra Darda , visited the blast sites.Shinde appealed to the agitated people in LOC_Event to maintain calm . . . The government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs200 ,000 each to the kin of those killed and Rs50 ,000 to the seriously injured . . . Deputy Prime Minister Lal Kishenchand Advani is scheduled to visit LOC_Event on Tuesday . . . Witness accounts : . . ` Their bodies were black '' LOC_Event blast powerful one '' I felt like I was going to die '' Ithought it was a hand-grenade '' Around me were blackened bodies '' I should have worn shoes ` Mute spectators at telephone boothsSt George 's Hospital struggles to cope . . . New Delhi Inquiry handed over to Special Branch . . NEW DELHI : A high-level inquiry has been ordered into the two powerful blasts that rocked two cinema halls in LOC_Event , killing one person and injuring over 50 people . . . The investigation of the case has been handed over to the Special Cell of the Delhi police . . . After the blasts , Delhi Police Commissioner , K K Paul , who visited the sites , held a meeting at the Police Headquarters , where it was decided to hand over the case to the Special Cell , trained to deal with terrorist activities . Meanwhile , a bomb disposal squad , the elite National Security Guards and forensic teams reached both the cinema halls to collect clues . . . Both the cinema halls - LOC_Event in Patel Nagar and LOC_Event in Karol Bagh - were screening ` Jo Bole So Nihal , ' a film that provoked protests from a section of Sikhs . . . However , the police , not immediately relating the blasts to the film , said they were the `` handiwork of an organised group . '' It has not identified any definite group as responsible for the incident . . . According to eyewitnesses , the blasts were of a very high intensity but the explosive devices had no splinter elements . They caused considerable damage to the two cinema halls , which are situated quite close to each other . . . PM condemns blasts . . The Prime Minister , Manmohan Singh , on Sunday night condemned the blasts and asked the people of Delhi to remain calm . He has assured all steps to ensure peace and security in the national Capital , his media advisor Sanjaya Baru said . . . Dr. Singh will be visiting the hospitals , where those injured in the explosions were admitted , early tomorrow morning before travelling to Ranthambore tiger reserve , Mr. Baru said . . . Sonia expresses concern . . Expressing concern over the explosion in cinema theatres , the Congress president , Sonia Gandhi asked the Chief Minister , Sheila Dikshit , and Lt. Governor , B L Joshi , to take all measures to maintain law and order and provide relief to the injured . She said immediate steps should be taken to provide the injured relief , AICC Secretary , Media , Tom Vaddakkan said . - UNI & PTI . National NSG experts to assist probe into LOC_Event car bomb blast . . Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI : The Centre has rushed NSG -LRB- National Security Guards -RRB- and forensic experts to LOC_Event to assist the security forces in probing Wednesday 's car bomb blast there , in which three Army personnel and two civilians were killed . . . Special Secretary -LRB- Internal Security -RRB- in the Home Ministry Anil Chowdhary said here that reports indicated that militants rammed an explosives-laden car into an Army jeep . Details were being collected to confirm the Hizbul Mujahideen 's claims about the blast , the sixth such incident over the past two months . . . On the rise in car bomb attacks in the LOC_Event , he said militants were desperate to make their presence felt . The police were instructed to step up searches of vehicles moving in or out of VIP areas in LOC_Event . . . Mr. Chowdhary said militants were increasingly resorting to grenade attacks and car bombs to inflict maximum damage and get publicity as well . Terrorists were gaining expertise in setting up car bombs . LOC_Event , July 20 A powerful car bomb explosion targeted at a convoy of the security forces took place in the high security area , killing at least four persons , including three Army personnel in the LOC_Event area , here this morning . An Army Major was among those killed while at least 15 others , including four Army jawans , were injured as the Maruti car and an Army vehicle were completely damaged in the explosion . . . The incident is regarded as a desperate action by militants , which coincided with the Prime Minister , Dr Manmohan Singhs US visit . It follows a series of infiltration attempts of armed militants from across the LoC in north Kashmir ahead of the Prime Ministers visit , and is believed to be an attempt on scuttling the peace process . It was only a day after the GOC of LOC_Event based 15 Corps of the Army , Lieut-Gen S.S. Dhillon claiming that there was a considerable reduction in the level of violence , but admitting that the militants had the potential to strike . . . A spokesman for the Hizbul Mujahideen outfit , who rang up some local media agencies here , has claimed responsibility for the attack . It was , however , not clear whether the explosion was caused by triggering an IED fitted in the car . . . The Inspector-General of Police , Kashmir Range , Mr Javed Ahmad Makhdoomi , said here that the explosion was caused by an explosive-laden Maruti car , which had come in the opposite direction of the Army convoy near SK Cricket stadium . . . He said the incident took place at about 9-30 a.m. , when there was heavy movement of traffic on the main road about one km . from the central Lal Chowk . He said that three Army personnel , including a Major and one civilian were killed , in the incident , while 15 others were injured . The condition of a woman injured in the explosion was critical , the IG , Police said . Those killed included Major Kapil Vinayak , Nayak Ram Krishen and Sepoy S.C. Dubey . The IG , Police , ruled out the possibility of this being a suicide attack as the four bodies recovered from the site had been identified . . . Panic gripped the area after the explosion near the Christian Missionary Burn Hall School . At the time of the explosion , the students were inside the classrooms , which prevented any harm to the children . However , window panes of the nearby buildings , one of these housing LIC office , were damaged . Damage was also caused to the glass panes of various buildings in the area , about one km from the Badami Bagh Cantonment , where the 15 Corps Headquarters of the Army is located . . . The explosion took place about 50 metres away from the main entrance to the Burn Hall School opposite to the Church Lane where a number of ministerial bungalows are located . . . It was also in front of the Sher-e-Kashmir cricket stadium , which normally remains the venue of VIP functions . Front Page 4 killed , 45 hurt in LOC_Event car bomb blast . . Shujaat Bukhari . . LOC_Event : For the third consecutive day militants struck in LOC_Event on Wednesday , setting off a car bomb here which killed at least four persons and injured 45 others , including a former Minister . The condition of at least 14 of them is stated to be critical . . . The civil lines area shook in the explosion , which occurred outside the LOC_Event Bank head office at 10.15 a.m. . The police said the explosives-laden car was parked outside the gate , which is close to one of the busiest crossings in the city . H.K. Lohia , Deputy Inspector-General , LOC_Event range , told The Hindu that it was probably detonated with a remote-controlled device . . . As the official car of the former Minister of State and MLA , Usman Majid 's was directly hit , ` they -LSB- militants -RSB- might have seen this VIP vehicle and hit the target . But I do not think it was aimed at him , ' Mr. Lohia said . Mr. Majid is a former counter-insurgent and close associate of counter-insurgent-turned-politician Kukka Parray , who was gunned down in 2003 . . . Mr. Majid had a narrow escape but received bruises in the face and his security guards were also injured . His car was completely damaged . ` He is safe and out of danger , ' Mushtaq Ahmed , his personal assistant told The Hindu . He said Mr. Majid was a target of militants . . . Witnesses said at least two persons including the bank guard died instantly and scores were left in a pool of blood . ` It was a big explosion and it looked like doomsday dawning on us , ' said Shaista , a bank official . . . ' I saw people lying on the road and crying for help , but there was chaos as news spread that a fidayeen -LRB- suicide squad member -RRB- had entered the bank office which was not true , ' said Merajuddin , a bus conductor . . . Buildings rattled within a two-km radius and Moulana Azad Road was littered with damaged vehicles , mangled steel with bloodstain and footwear . . . Al Arifeen , a little known militant outfit owned responsibility for the attack . Its spokesman Majid Iqbal told a local news agency KNS that it had planned to carry out explosion somewhere else but ` when the police stopped the target the militants had no option but to explode it . ' . . The Hizbul Mujahideen condemned the blast and said ` we are not for such activities . '' . . Related Stories : Mounting frustration in LOC_Event . Opinion - Letters to the Editor LOC_Event bomb attack . . The recent spurt in killings in LOC_Event , including Wednesday 's gruesome car bomb attack that claimed four lives and injured 45 others , is disturbing . While there can be no disputing the need for the peace process not to be derailed on the basis of such incidents , their continuance will surely test the resolve of Indian policy-makers . Peace can not be a one-way street . Pakistan should dismantle the terrorist infrastructure on its soil and should stop supporting terrorist activities . At the same time , we need to improve our intelligence set-up . We also need to win the support of the local population and make them a party to the peace initiative . Only that can guarantee lasting peace . . . Abhishek Mishra , New Delhi . . * * * . . The fresh wave of violence in LOC_Event is indicative of the growing frustration among the terrorist outfits . It is their way of responding to the growing camaraderie among the people on both sides of the Line of Control following the October 8 earthquake . . . Nikil V. Davis , Irinjalakuda , Kerala . . * * * . . India has lent a helping hand to the earthquake-affected people of Pakistan-occupied LOC_Event by opening five points along the LoC to facilitate the movement of relief material . In response , so-called ` freedom fighters ' triggered a car bomb blast in LOC_Event on Wednesday , killing four and injuring 45 persons . . . K. Sasidharan , Srirangam , T.N. . . * * * . . The LOC_Event bomb blasts as well as those in New Delhi earlier show that the militant outfits are slowly gaining the upper hand . The security forces in the Kashmir Valley should be reinforced . . . P. Kannan , Srivilliputtur , T.N. . . * * * . . A three-pronged strategy should be adopted in the fight against terrorism : create awareness among the people and isolate the terrorists ; allow the Army to attack terrorist training camps ; pressure Pakistan , diplomatically , to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorist groups such as Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Lashkar-e-Taiba . . . Gangadhararao Reddy , Jangareddygudem , A.P. . . * * * . . Terrorism in any form is despicable . To patronise it in the name of god and in the name of religion is a sin against god , religion , and humanity . . . George Olivera , Bangalore . Front Page Serial blasts kill 70 persons in Delhi . . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : At least 70 persons were killed and several injured in three powerful serial explosions here on Saturday evening . While two bombs went off at busy LOC_Event , one exploded inside a Delhi Transport Corporation bus . Following the explosions , suspected to have been caused by Improvised Explosive Devices , a countrywide red alert was sounded . No terrorist outfit has so far claimed responsibility . . . The first explosion took place around 5.25 p.m. at LOC_Event in Paharganj , LOC_Event , the bus blast at 5.40 p.m. at LOC_Event in South Delhi and the third and most powerful one at 5.45 p.m. at the LOC_Event market in South-West Delhi . An explosive device was defused outside the LOC_Event at LOC_Event in the Walled City area . . . Shops go up in flames . . At Sarojini Nagar , it is suspected that the bomb was planted inside a Maruti van parked near shops . Within seconds , half a dozen cloth shops went up in flames . Subsequently , a couple of gas cylinders exploded inside a juice and chaat shop . The festival buzz at the bustling market place gave way to chaos as people fled fearing more explosions . Such was the impact of the blast that some shops just crumbled . The police did not rule out the possibility of people lying buried under the debris . At least 40 persons died in the blast here . Scores were injured , some of them critically . . . The bomb that rocked the Paharganj main bazaar is suspected to have been planted in a motorcycle or a rickshaw parked near a jewellery shop . People scattered in panic as smoke swirled from the blast site . . . Eyewitnesses said the jewellery outlet and adjoining shops took the impact . There were pools of blood on the road with body parts strewn around . Bags , shoes and chappals lay scattered . Local traders with the help of the police rushed the injured to the Ram Manohar Lohia , Lady Hardinge and Kalawati Saran hospitals . . . According to police sources , at least 25 persons were killed and over 45 injured in this blast . Four bodies , including that of a child , were burnt beyond recognition . . . The explosion in the DTC bus -LRB- DL-1PB-2719 -RRB- near the LOC_Event injured six persons , including the driver and the conductor . Eyewitnesses said the passengers sounded an alert after they spotted an unclaimed bag under a seat . After stopping the bus at the roundabout near Anandmai Marg , the driver picked up the bag , triggering the explosion , it is said . All the injured were rushed to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences . . . Soon after the blasts , the Union Home Ministry convened an emergency meeting to review security in the capital . Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit announced an ex gratia payment of Rs . 3 lakhs to the families of each of the deceased and Rs . 50,000 to those seriously injured . . . RDX suspected . . Police Commissioner K.K. Paul , visiting the site of blasts , said investigations were handed over to the Special Cell of the Delhi police . RDX is suspected to have been used in the bombs . . . Even as raids were under way at hotels and guesthouses , unconfirmed reports said two persons from Kashmir were detained at the New Delhi railway station . An agency report said 10 persons were taken into custody . National Kalam condemns blasts . . Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI : President Abdul Kalam has condemned the serial blasts that rocked the capital on Saturday evening and condoled the loss of lives in the explosions . ` Dr Kalam has appealed to the people to maintain calm and help in relief and rescue operations , '' S. M. Khan , Press Adviser to the President said . . . The President spoke to Home Minister Shivraj Patil and Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit and took stock of the relief work being undertaken by the authorities . . . Vice President Bhairon Singh Shekhawat also expressed his grief and concern over the bomb blasts . . . Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee condemned the blast and appealed to the people to remain calm and united in this hour of crisis . New Delhi Panic in LOC_Event market . . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : Even as the police were coming to terms with the blast at LOC_Event on Saturday evening , another busy market at LOC_Event was rocked by an even more powerful explosion . The bomb went off in one of the corners of the market teaming with people . . . Ravinder Khetrapal was in his readymade clothes shop when the blast went off . Within minutes there was panic all round . People who were engulfed in the blaze screamed for help . The fire gutted at least half-a-dozen clothes shops . . . And then more blasts followed , triggered by exploding cooking gas cylinders that caught fire . ` Following the bomb blast , some of the vehicles which were parked right behind the cloth shops also went up in flames , ' said Mr. Khetrapal . . . Mr. Khetrapal added that while the LOC_Event market is always teeming with people , particularly nowadays in view of the festive season , the blast took place at the most crowded corner , where a few eateries are located , including LOC_Event where the first cooking gas cylinder exploded . . . The Joint Commissioner of Police -LRB- Southern Range -RRB- , B. S. Bassi , said the exploding cooking gas cylinders added to the high toll . While Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil , who visited Safdarjung Hospital around 8 p.m. , put the toll at 37 , it later crossed 40 . The condition of another 20 people was reported to be critical . Most of the injured had sustained serious burn injuries and the toll was likely to go up . . . Some of the victims were also taken to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences where two of them succumbed to their injuries . Seven others were reported to be serious . . . While the police said investigations were on to ascertain the people who triggered these explosions , eyewitnesses claimed that the bomb was kept inside a white Maruti van . The front windscreen of the vehicle was shattered and so were the hatchback and the rear windscreen . However , the vehicle itself was not reduced to a mangled heap . Front Page Government issues emergency alert . . Staff Reporter . . BANGALORE : In the wake of the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event , Chief Minister N. Dharam Singh on Sunday issued an emergency alert to officials in Bangalore and other major cities and towns in the State , and directed them to take suspected criminals into preventive custody . . . Briefing presspersons after a high-level meeting of senior Police and Home Department officials , Mr. Singh said the security in the State capital , in particular , had been beefed up after Union Home Minister Shivaraj Patil had instructed the State Government to be extra careful following the bomb blasts in LOC_Event on Saturday . . . He said that the district and police officials in other cities such as Mysore , Hubli-Dharwad and Belgaum also had been instructed to keep a strict vigil in view of Deepavali and Ramzan festivals . The State and the fast developing Bangalore city had been in the hit list of extremists . Assistant Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners of Police were directed to keep a watch on the movements of certain organisations . . . Bangalore police commissioner Ajai Kumar Singh said his department had taken precautionary measures in the city . Particular focus was on thickly populated areas and on multi-storeyed buildings in different parts of the city . . . He said even the bomb detection squads have been asked to be ready to face any emergency . Although no preventive arrests have been made , trouble mongers will be taken into custody , he added . Asked if the city police would provide extra security to Electronics City where most of the Information Technology firms are located , Mr. Singh said that most of that area is under the jurisdiction of the Bangalore district police . The district police have ensured tight security in the area , he said . . . Chief Secretary B.K. Das ; Principal Secretary -LRB- Home -RRB- Sudhakar Rao ; and Director General of Police B.S. Sial and Mr. Ajai Kumar Singh were among those who attended the meeting . While four of them , who were injured in the LOC_Event blast , died in the Safdarjung hospital , two others were victims of the LOC_Event explosion , police said . . . A total of 188 people had been injured in last evening 's explosions , they said . . . Most of the casualties were from LOC_Event where 43 people died while 18 were killed in LOC_Event . . . In Safdarjung hospital , 28 of the 41 bodies have been identified so far . Relatives could be seen in distraught condition trying to locate their kin who did not return home after the blasts last evening . Bodies of two more victims have been identified at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( AIIMS ) , where 16 people including seven women and five children were undergoing treatment and the condition of two was stated to be critical . I , Safdarjung , 38 victims , including 14 women and 9 children were under treatment . While nine of them were in the intensive care unit , the condition of others was serious , sources said . Twenty four people have been discharged from the two hospitals after treatment overnight . . . . LOC_Event Search on for militants involved in LOC_Event blasts . . Staff Reporter . . LOC_Event : Five days after the arrest of the alleged Lashkar-e-Taiba -LRB- LeT -RRB- conduit , Tariq Ahmed Dar , the LOC_Event police were still busy trying to piece together the entire sequence of events leading to the October 29 serial blasts in the Capital . A massive search has been launched to trace the militants who , according to Tariq , had planted the bombs . . . Senior police officers on Tuesday remained tight-lipped over the developments in the cases , but it is learnt that they were interrogating Tariq and some other persons reportedly picked up on suspicion of their involvement in the blasts . . . A Special Cell team had earlier visited Jammu and Kashmir to conduct raids on suspected hideouts of the militants identified by Tariq , including the LeT commander , Abu Huzefa . . . The police team also went to Tariq 's residence in search of evidence establishing his suspected links with the terrorists . They were also trying to trace the satellite phone through which he was alleged to be in regular contact with his Pakistan-based handlers , including the Pakistani LeT commander for operation in the Kashmir Valley , Abu Al Kama . The police are also probing the monetary transactions through Tariq 's HDFC account in Srinagar . Investigations so far have revealed that money in huge amounts was transferred to his account from time to time , from a Middle-East country -LRB- Saudi Arabia -RRB- . . . The intelligence agencies are trying to identify the source of the money-transfer . National Blast accused brought to Delhi . . Staff Reporter . . LOC_Event : Two persons , whom the the Delhi police picked up from Jammu and Kashmir in connection with the October 29 bomb blasts here , have been brought to the Capital . . . While one of them has been remanded to 14-day police custody on Thursday , the police remained tight-lipped about the other detainee . . . It is learnt that around 5 p.m. on Thursday , one of the accused , identified as Ghulam Mohammad Khan , was produced in court . The police claimed that Ghulam was one of the peripheral links of the Lashkar-e-Taiba , which is suspected to be behind the blasts . A probe into his bank account reportedly idicated that in the past three months , he had sent about Rs . 66 lakhs , apparently through a Middle-East country . The police suspect that like Tariq Ahmed Dar , the alleged conduit arrested earlier in Srinagar for his involvement in the LOC_Event blasts , Ghulam was also used to disburse money among the militants . . . Tariq will be produced in court on Friday . Praveen Swami . . One Lashkar leader killed in Lucknow , two in Delhi . . NEW DELHI : Just hours after the bomb blasts in LOC_Event , the Uttar Pradesh and New Delhi police hit back at the Lashkar-e-Taiba , which experts believe could have carried out Tuesday 's attacks at the LOC_Event and the LOC_Event . . . A joint group of the Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh police shot dead Mohammad Salim bin-Aziz , a resident of Ratlam district of Madhya Pradesh . Officials say he was one of the seniormost organisers of the Lashkar . . . The counter-terrorist Special Cell of the Delhi police killed two Lashkar terrorists , including Ghulam Yazdani , in north Delhi . He was the architect of a Dhaka-based cell that executed blasts and assassinations in Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat . . . ` Both the Intelligence Bureau and State police forces have been monitoring these cells for several weeks , ' one senior official told The Hindu . ` While there were indications that several large-scale strikes were being planned , there is no evidence to suggest either group had any direct contact with the LOC_Event bombers , ' he said . . . Informed sources said the gunning down of the Lashkar members had no direct link with the LOC_Event bombings , but described the killings as the most significant blow to the Lashkar 's capabilities in over a year . In particular , the elimination of the 43-year-old bin-Aziz in a pre-dawn raid in Lucknow 's Gosainganj area marks the end of a 20-year terror career of the Lashkar 's most wanted and most enigmatic operative . . . On the run from the police of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan , where he was wanted on organised crime charges , bin-Aziz came into contact with a Harkat-linked cleric at the Deoband seminary in 1989 . He was trained in a camp near Rawalpindi and assigned command of the Harkat unit that operated in Anantnag from 1991 . . . Police and intelligence authorities in Uttar Pradesh have drawn sketches of the two men , who witnesses say , planted the explosives in LOC_Event . . . At least one of the bombs , Home Minister Shivraj Patil said in New Delhi , was encased in a pressure cooker . . . Forensic tests will be done to determine whether the explosive material was the one used in other strikes across the country . . . Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mulayam Singh Yadav told journalists that investigators might have recovered important bombing-related evidence from the Lucknow safe house used by bin-Aziz , who operated with the code-names ` Salaar , ' ` Doctor , ' ` Majeed , ' and ` Masala-wallah . ' . . Mr. Yadav repeatedly referred to bin-Aziz as a Pakistan national , but later described him simply as ' a terrorist . ' . March 7 : The political leadership scrambled tonight to prevent a repeat of Gujarat after serial blasts killed at least 15 people in LOC_Event , one of the most renowned pilgrimage cities in the world . . . The Prime Minister led the chorus of appeals for calm and despatched additional security forces to Uttar Pradesh while Sonia Gandhi rushed to LOC_Event with the home minister . . . The first explosion occurred in the packed LOC_Event near Benaras Hindu University . Hundreds of pilgrims were in the temple as Tuesdays are considered particularly holy by devotees of Hanuman , the deity of the Sankat Mochan shrine . . . Some Hindus believe that Sankat Mochan is second in importance only to the Viswanath Mandir , the holiest of Hindu shrines . . . Two other explosions rocked the LOC_Event ' one inside the stationary Shivganga Express bound for Delhi and another in a LOC_Event . . . The break-up of the casualty figure was not available but police said it seemed higher at the station . At least 100 people were injured . . . Six bombs were found from other areas in the city , including in a restaurant frequented by foreigners . . . In the temple , the bomb was placed in a container near a gate where women usually sit . When the bomb went off , an elderly couple was waiting to offer prayers for their newly-wed daughter and her husband . . . I was about 100 feet away . I could see hands and legs flying in the air , said Kaushik Kishore , a student of Benaras Hindu University . . . No group claimed responsibility for the blasts and officials said it was too early to pin blame . . . In Delhi , the political and administrative machinery worked overtime to prevent a backlash , especially since Holi is only a week away and preliminary investigation suggested that the explosions bore similarities to the pre-Diwali blasts that rocked the capital last year . . . Security has been stepped up across sensitive spots in the country and the government signalled that its priority is to ensure that no Gujarat-like flare-up occurred anywhere . . . Five companies of CRPF have been sent to Uttar Pradesh , on the boil following protests over cartoons and the visit of US President George W. Bush . The BJP and the VHP have called for a bandh in Uttar Pradesh tomorrow . . . Sonia left for LOC_Event after a meeting with Congress leaders . At this moment , while all efforts are being made to identify those behind this dastardly deed , we must do our utmost to maintain social harmony and peace , she said in a message . . . The Jamiat-Ulama-i-Hind and the Indian Union Muslim League condemned the blasts . At least20 persons were killed andover 50injured whentwo blasts rocked LOC_Event on Tuesday evening . . . According to the police , two blasts occurred almost simultaneously at about 6.30 pm . The first blast took place at the LOC_Event that was crowded on Tuesday , believed to be a special day for Lord Hanuman . . . Panic prevailed at the temple with at least 10 persons dying on the spot while about 40 were wounded . `` Ten of the woundedare critical , '' a hospital official said . . . Asimilar explosion in the waiting area of the LOC_Event followed the temple blast.A bomb went off outside the station master 's room at the LOC_Event , leaving five dead and about 20 injured . . . Another live bomb was unearthed in LOC_Event residential locality . `` It was diffused by the bomb squad , '' police said . . . According to LOC_Event Senior Superintendent of Police Navneet Sikera , `` The blasts were big and we would not rule out more casualties . '' . . Ammonium Nitrate was used in the bombs , official sources said . They were connected to timer devices that were set to go off in a serial manner . . . Sikera also does not rule out a terrorist hand behind the blast . `` What else could it be ? '' he asked . `` I would not be surprised if it were some kind of a retaliatory act by Lashkar-e-Tayiba , as we had nabbed one of their agents in Varanasi in February , '' Sikera sought to add . . . The suspected LeT agent was handed over to West Bengal police as the Bengal police had alerted them about the accused . . . Sikera was unable to give any further details of the blast . `` Our priority is to ensure maintenance of law and order and to see that peace and harmony is not disturbed , '' he added . . . While the injured have been rushed to the Benaras Hindu University hospital , the entire temple complex has been cordoned off . . . Sheela Bhatt adds from New Delhi : . . A top intelligence official said that two live bombs were recovered from the city -- one at the Godalia crossroads and one at the famous Gangaghat . . . Intelligence sources added that a reason for the temple being so crowded was a wedding ceremony in the temple between a Nepali girl and a Bihari boy . . . LOC_Event is the oldest LOC_Event in LOC_Event . . . It is said that Saint Tulsidas established two temples in LOC_Event and this LOC_Event is of great value to people who follow the saint 's Ramcharita Manas . . . `` Every Hindu visitor to our city goes to this temple , '' Dr Rakesh Mazumdar , a resident of Varanasi told rediff.com . . . In India , millions of Hindus are followers of Bajrangbali ( Lord Hanuman ) and the Sankat Mochan temple is a sacred spot for them . . . Mazumdar said , `` Even Amitabh Bachchan celebrated wife Jaya 's 50th birthday here . '' . . Anil Mishra , a senior journalist with Hindustan newspaper said , `` Residents of Varanasi were aware of terrorist threats in city . In the last three months , three Lashkar-e-Tayiba terrorists were caught and the police knew that city is under risk . But it looks like not enough security measures have been taken . '' . . The temple is run by the Sankat Mochan Foundation , which is headed by Veer Bhadra Mishra , who was named by Time magazine as one of the Heroes of the Planet in 1999 for his work in cleaning the Ganga river . . . The Benaras Hindu University Hospital helpline number : 0542-2369242 . . . Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Tayiba militant outfit , whose member was shot dead in an encounter with police near Lucknow on Wednesday , appeared prima facie behind the blasts in LOC_Event , a senior Uttar Pradesh government official said in LOC_Event on Wednesday . . . Principal Secretary ( Home ) Alok Sinha told a hurriedly called press conference that security agencies probing the blasts have been able to `` uncover '' that the LeT terrorist , who was shot dead in an encounter with the Special Task Force of the state police near the state capital , was involved in them . . . `` Prima facie , it appears that the slain terrorist was involved in the twin blasts but it would be a matter of investigation to ascertain the degree of his involvement or whether he was the mastermind , '' Sinha said . . . Asked specifically whether LeT was involved in the blasts , Sinha said it could not be said with certainty as yet but hastened to add that the terrorist outfit keep on changing their names and also their modules . To a query about the possible involvement of Pakistani intelligence agency Inter Services Intelligence , the Home Secretary said , `` It was difficult to say whether it was involved . '' . . In reply to a question , he said there was no specific intelligence information about the possibility of a terrorist attack in the LOC_Event and added that , `` There never is any specific inputs on terrorist attacks . '' . . . NEW DELHI , March 7 -- Bombs exploded in a crowded LOC_Event and a LOC_Event in the holy city of LOC_Event on Tuesday evening , killing at least 15 people and raising fears of retaliatory violence against India 's minority Muslim population . Authorities appealed for calm and police officers in major cities were placed on high alert . . . Even before the blasts , communal tensions had been rising in India . Angry Muslim protests against President Bush , who visited India last week , as well as against cartoons of the prophet Muhammad , first published in a Danish newspaper , have erupted into violence in several cities . . . The first blast Tuesday ripped through the LOC_Event shortly after 6 p.m. as Hindu devotees gathered to make offerings to the monkey god Hanuman , Indian news agencies reported . Among the dead was a bridegroom who had come to seek the deity 's blessings , according to the Press Trust of India news service . Tuesday evening is the traditional time for visiting the temple . . . The second explosion came minutes later at the LOC_Event . The blast left a foot-deep crater , shattered windows and splattered the station with blood and body parts , the Press Trust reported . Four more unexploded bombs were found at another site next to the Ganges River . . . In an interview with the Reuters news agency , Navneet Sikera , senior superintendent of police in Varanasi , put the death toll at 15 , with 60 injured . The Press Trust said 20 people had died , including 14 at the train station . [ Five people died overnight of injuries , according to a police official cited by the Associated Press . ) . . Indian television footage of the bombed temple showed pools of blood and chunks of flesh amid scattered shoes and other debris . Injured survivors were carried to private vehicles and ambulances , and crowds of angry men waved their fists in the air . Many of the injured were said to be in critical condition . . . Situated in the state of Uttar Pradesh about 400 miles east of New Delhi , the historic , densely packed city of Varanasi is sometimes called the `` Hindu Jerusalem '' to underscore its significance to the followers of India 's dominant faith , who make up about 81 percent of the population . The city is a magnet for pilgrims who travel there for ritual baths in the Ganges River . And the most religious Hindus believe there is no better place to die than LOC_Event , whose waterfront is lined with cremation grounds . . . Authorities feared the bombings of such a sensitive site could trigger communal bloodletting . In 2002 , reports of a Muslim attack on a train carrying Hindu nationalists in the state of LOC_Event triggered rioting that left more than 1,000 people dead . Most of the dead in that episode were Muslims , who make up about 13 percent of India 's billion-plus people . . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh `` has appealed for peace and calm , '' said his media adviser , Sanjay Baru . `` He is constantly monitoring the situation . '' . . Interior minister Shivraj Patil was en route to LOC_Event Tuesday night , as was Sonia Gandhi , leader of the Congress party , which heads the country 's governing coalition . . . Spokesmen for the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party , which leads the opposition , blamed the bombings on what they said was the government 's lax attitude toward terrorism , and called for a strike in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday . . . One key unanswered question Tuesday night was whether the bombings were the work of homegrown Islamic extremists or militant groups based in Pakistan . In the past , the Pakistani government has used such groups as a weapon in its conflict with India over the divided Himalayan province of Kashmir . . . In late 2001 , an attack on India 's Parliament that India blamed on Pakistan triggered a military standoff that raised fears of a nuclear exchange . The crisis was defused only under heavy U.S. and British diplomatic pressure . . . India and Pakistan embarked on peace negotiations that have lowered tensions , but Indian officials have continued to express skepticism over claims by Gen. Pervez Musharraf , Pakistan 's president , that he has ended state support for militant groups . Indian authorities have identified the militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba , which is based in Pakistan , as a primary suspect in the bombings of two LOC_Event markets that killed 60 people Oct. 29 . Musharraf has banned the group , although it continues to operate under a different name . . . Some analysts saw a possible connection between the bombings and Hindu-Muslim clashes in the city of LOC_Event on Friday that left four people dead . The clashes grew out of Muslim protests against Bush . Communal clashes also erupted in the coastal state of Goa . . . . A series of bomb blasts killed at least 21 people in the Indian holy city of LOC_Event last night . . . Security forces across the country were on high alert as intelligence officials hinted that the explosions , which also injured more than 60 people , were the work of Islamic militants . . . LOC_Event , 450 miles east of New Delhi , is one of Hinduism 's holiest cities and is filled with pilgrims visiting temples and bathing in the holy waters of the Ganges , which runs through the city . . . The first blast at the crowded LOC_Event killed 10 worshippers . Witnesses said debris , body parts and blood covered the temple 's floor . . . India factfile . . Eleven more people died in explosions 45 minutes later at a station a few miles away and inside a nearby train . A fourth bomb was defused in a residential district of LOC_Event . . . `` The entire country is shocked by the blasts and is trying to cope with the situation , '' said Mulayam Singh Yadav , chief minister of the state of Uttar Pradesh . Special Correspondent . . ` BJP seeking to draw political mileage ' . . Political parties must refrain from politicising the incident : CPI -LRB- M -RRB- CPI -LRB- ML -RRB- condemns U.P. Government for not taking pre-emptive steps Vested interests could use blasts to trigger communal polarisation . . NEW DELHI : The Congress and the Left parties on Wednesday condemned the bomb blasts in Varanasi and regretted that the Bharatiya Janata Party was seeking to draw political mileage from the incident . . . Expressing its deep shock and strong condemnation , the Communist Party of India -LRB- Marxist -RRB- said the fact that the blasts took place at a LOC_Event and in the LOC_Event in Varanasi shows the ` diabolical motive ' behind this terrorist attack , which is to create communal tensions and a backlash . . . ` Recognising the nature of this provocation , all sections of the people must rebuff this heinous attempt , ' the party Polit Bureau said in a statement . The party said while it is time for people to be united and determined to counter such terrorist violence , it was unfortunate that the BJP was resorting to mean politics by attributing the terrorist outrage to so-called minority appeasement by the Government and the secular parties . . . ` This is an exhibition of the type of communal politics which vitiates the atmosphere in the country , ' the party said and called upon the Uttar Pradesh Government and the Centre to track down the culprits and identify and proceed against the groups and networks responsible for such terrorist acts . . . Demanding that the perpetrators of such a crime should not go scot-free , the CPI said the Union and the State Governments should make all efforts to pin down the culprits . . . ` The political parties must refrain from politicising the incident which may lead to communal polarisation of the people in U.P. and elsewhere . The timing of the terror act and its execution appear to have -LSB- been -RSB- aimed at deflecting the discourse on vital issues concerning the people and the country and disrupting the united actions of the people , ' the party Central Secretariat said in its statement . . . The Congress said that when it was in the Opposition it did not disrupt proceedings during terrorist attacks on temples like Akshardham in Gandhinagar and Raghunath in Jammu , the Red Fort and Parliament . . . Did the BJP not celebrate Holi then , asked party spokesperson Rajiv Shukla , reacting to the BJP suggestion that the party would not participate in the Holi festival next week . The party flayed the BJP decision to take out twin yatras and dubbed them as ` riot yatras ' . . . Speedy probe . . The CPI -LRB- ML -RRB- Liberation too strongly condemned the blasts and called for speedy and credible probe to identify the guilty and ensure swift punishment . The party also condemned the Mulayam Singh Government for not taking pre-emptive steps to stop any recurrence of such incidents , especially in the backdrop of the Mau riots and tension in Lucknow following recent anti-Bush protests . The party cautioned that vested political interests in Uttar Pradesh could use the blasts to trigger communal polarisation . . . PTI reports : The Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Home Minister Shivraj Patil visited Varanasi on Wednesday to take stock of the situation . LUCKNOW : A mastermind of the recent LOC_Event blasts and five of his accomplices were arrested on Wednesday by the Uttar Pradesh police and Central security agencies . A module of the Bangladesh-based Harkat-ul-Jehadi-Islamia -LRB- HuJI -RRB- was also busted . . . Wali Ullah and his accomplices were arrested from different parts of the State and a large quantity of arms and ammunition recovered from them , Jagmohan Yadav , Inspector-General of Special Task Force of the police , told reporters . . . The five were : Mehbook Ali , a resident of North 24 Parganas district in West Bengal , Syed Shuaib Hussain and Farhan of Lucknow , and Mohammad Rizwan Siddique and Mohammad Saad Ali from Jyotiba Phule Nagar district , he said . . . Trained with Jaish . . Wali Ullah , who had trained with the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed , was extending ` all help ' to the cadre of the HuJI , which is banned by India and Pakistan . . . Telephone calls made by Wali Ullah made the sleuths close in on him . . . He had made calls to the same number to which militants , who had planted the bombs at the LOC_Event and the LOC_Event cantonment railway station , had made . . . Wali Ullah , who was presented before the mediapersons , said the HuJI could even be responsible for the last year 29/10 LOC_Event blasts , an explosion in LOC_Event last year and a blast on board the Shramjeevi Express last year . Devesh K. Pandey . . Low-intensity crude devices used ; Shahi Imam appeals for calm . . NEW DELHI : Fourteen persons , including a woman and a girl , were injured in two explosions inside the LOC_Event in the LOC_Event area here soon after evening prayers on Friday . Initial investigations indicated that low-intensity crude bombs were used . No outfit has claimed responsibility for the blasts . . . According to eyewitnesses , the first explosion took place at 5-20 p.m. , soon after the ` namazis ' went to a tank at the centre of the mosque to clean themselves . ` As soon as I got up after namaz , I heard a loud explosion . I saw a person standing near the tank being thrown away in the impact of the blast . He sustained injuries in the thigh and legs , ' said Mohammad Adil . . . Realising that it was a bomb blast , the mosque authorities immediately urged the ` namazis ' to stay away from a polythene bag found near the tank . Policemen stationed outside Gate No. 1 of the mosque rushed inside . . . Just then , the second bomb exploded and more people were injured . They were taken to the nearby Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narain Hospital , where they were stated to be out of danger . . . The LOC_Event 's Shahi Imam appealed to the people over the public address system to maintain calm . He said the explosions were the acts of certain people who wanted to whip up communal passions and create disturbance in the country . He asked the people to pray for communal harmony . . . Police Commissioner K.K. Paul , who arrived at the spot , urged the people not to be carried away by rumours . . . Even as a forensic team was gathering evidence from the explosion sites , hundreds of people gathered outside Gate No. 1 and shouted slogans . . . Delhi Lieutenant-Governor B.L. Joshi visited the masjid and he , along with Dr. Paul , went to the hospital to meet the victims . Enquiries showed that both bombs were kept in two polythene bags near the tank . . . The bombs appear to be similar to the ones used by the Pakistan-based top Lashkar-e-Taiba militant , Abdul Karim Tunda , to trigger explosions in the capital in 1996-98 . . . Initial investigations indicated that no timer device was used , creating a strong suspicion that chemicals , readily available in the market , were used to prepare the bombs . . . According to the police sources , Tunda was an expert in preparing bombs using potassium chlorate or ammonium nitrate with sulphuric acid . He would keep the two chemicals in a container in such a way that the bomb would explode after a while . . . Focus on local groups . . Though the police are probing the role of all extremist outfits , for the time being they are focussing on local groups suspected to be operating from Delhi or neighbouring Uttar Pradesh , it is learnt . ` The nature of injuries suggests that the explosions were carried out just to create terror . The real motive behind the blasts was not to kill but to send across some message , ' said a police officer . Devesh K. Pandey . . TV news channel Aaj Tak claims it received two e-mails on Thursday warning about the explosions . . NEW DELHI : A high alert has been sounded in the Capital and the borders sealed in the wake of the twin explosions inside the LOC_Event on Friday . . . Even as the police launched a hunt for the culprits , Hindi TV news channel Aaj Tak claimed that it received two e-mails on Thursday warning that a conspiracy was being hatched to carry out explosions inside the LOC_Event . Soon after the blasts on Friday , the Hindi news channel received another e-mail that said : ' I had warned you . ' The police are now trying to trace the person who sent the e-mails . . . Patrolling intensified . . Additional forces were deployed in the walled city to control the huge crowds that gathered outside the LOC_Event after the blasts . The Rapid Action Force was also deployed . The district police heads were directed to intensify patrolling and enhance deployment at religious places . . . Senior police officers held meetings with community leaders , urging them to maintain harmony in their areas and prevent the spread of rumours . . . Police teams formed . . After the crowds dispersed from the LOC_Event , four police teamswere formed to make enquiries at guesthouses and hotels in the walled city . The Special Cell of the Delhi police was asked to scan mobile phone calls made from the LOC_Event area before and after the explosions . . . The police also sought help from their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh . The statements of the injured would be recorded to get evidence . ` There were not many people near the mosque 's tank where the blasts took place . We are trying to contact them to find out if they had seen anyone planting the bombs , ' said a police officer . . . Crude devices . . The bombs used in the twin blasts appear to be similar to the ones used by the Pakistan-based top Lashkar-e-Taiba -LRB- LeT -RRB- militant , Abdul Karim Tunda , to trigger explosions in the Capital way back in 1996-98 . . . Initial investigations have indicated that no timer device was used in the bombs , creating a strong suspicion that chemicals -- readily available in the market -- were used to prepare them . The technique of manufacturing such crude bombs was popularised by Tunda in the mid-1990s . . . The police suspect that similar bombs were used in the explosions at LOC_Event on Friday . . . Though the police are probing the role of all the extremist outfits , it is learnt that for the time being they are concentrating more on local groups suspected to be operating from Delhi or neighbouring Uttar Pradesh . . . ` The nature of injuries and fewer number of casualties suggest that the explosions were carried out just to create terror . The real motive behind the blasts was not to kill but to send across some message , ' said a police officer . Staff Reporter . . Sequel to serial explosions in LOC_Event and at LOC_Event in LOC_Event . . HYDERABAD : Security was beefed up at important religious places in and around the city as serial blasts rocked LOC_Event and LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Friday . Patrolling was intensified near prayer halls , temples and mosques . . . Sniffer dogs were brought to LOC_Event and other religious places in Old City to identify suspicious objects . Bomb detection squads were also pressed into service . While police higher-ups kept additional forces ready to meet any eventuality , the explosions in northern parts of the country absolutely had no effect in the State capital , especially in the communally sensitive old city . Friday being a holiday , all roads near Charminar bustled with shoppers unmindful of the blasts . . . Alert sounded . . The Hyderabad and Cyberabad police were put on high alert . ` Though persons behind the serial blasts are yet to be identified , we did n't want to take any chance since Hyderabad was targeted by some terrorist groups earlier , ' a police officer said . A watch was kept on all suspects connected with terrorist groups . Staff Reporter . . Security stepped up in and around the mosque as life returns to normal . . LOC_Event : Even as normality returned to the LOC_Event area of the Capital on Saturday within hours of the two bomb explosions inside the historic LOC_Event complex on Friday , the Special Cell of the Delhi police picked up over a dozen people for questioning . However , no arrests have been made so far . . . Amid tight security , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh along with Union Minister of State for External Affairs E. Ahmed visited the mosque on Saturday evening and met the Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid . He also visited the hospital where the injured are admitted . . . Earlier in the day , LOC_Event 's Police Commissioner K. K. Paul took a round of the LOC_Event area to review the security arrangements . ` We are piecing together all the evidence gathered from the blast site . About 15 people have been interrogated in coordination with intelligence agencies in connection with the blast , ' he disclosed . . Along with those picked up for interrogation , the antecedents of at least two suspects are being probed by Special Cell officers as they have given contradictory statements about their movement at the time of the blasts . With the help of eyewitnesses the police are trying to reconstruct the sequence of events leading to the explosions near the water-tank right at the centre of the historic mosque . . . The police have also recorded the statements of some of the victims injured in the twin blasts . . . The police have recovered portions of a battery from the scene of explosions but have not come across any timer device or wire . Though senior police officers are sure that the bombs used in the explosions were crude , they are probing how exactly they were configured . . . According to the police , the nature of blasts indicates that some local group was involved . ` As investigations are in an initial stage , we can not say for sure which outfit is behind the explosions , ' said a senior police officer , emphasising that the motive of the blasts by all indications was not to kill but to whip up communal passions . . . Following the explosions , metal detectors have been installed at all entrances to the Jama Masjid and more police personnel have been deployed in the area . All visitors to the mosque are being frisked and their belongings checked . However , all the shops in the area around the mosque remained open on Saturday . . . Meanwhile , barring three of the victims , all the other injured were discharged from Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Hospital on Saturday . Thirteen people were injured , one of them seriously , in two explosions that took place in quick succession inside the historic LOC_Event in Old Delhi when the devout were offering prayers on Friday evening . . . The first explosion took place at around 5.30 pm , when devotees were preparing for ` Asar ' -LRB- evening prayer -RRB- near a pond used by them for ablutions . . . Today being Friday and a holiday on account of Babasaheb Ambedkar 's birth anniversary , a large number of people were present in the complex at the time of the explosion . . . Fifteen minutes later , another blast rocked the place , eye-witnesses said . . . Jama Masjid spokesman Amanullah Khan told rediff.com , ` We were caught unawares . There was no warning given to us by the Delhi police nor were we told that there was any risk of blasts . . . ` Since it was prayer time , not many people werepresent at the spot wherethe twin blasts took place , ' he said , adding , ' A large number of worshippers have gathered here . They are agitated about the blasts and are refusing to go away . ' . . Syed Ahmed Bukhari , the shahiimam of Jama Masjid , has appealed to the people to maintain communal harmony and to defeat the designs of those who want to disrupt the peaceful co-existence between Hindus and Muslims . . . ` About eight hundred devotees were praying in the masjid when the first blast took place . That was around 5.25 in the evening . I immediately rushed to the spot and was asking people to help in removing the injured to hospitals when the second blast took place , ' he said . . . . . . . Two blasts rock LOC_Event , 20 killed . . He ordered the immediate closure of all the gates of the Jama Masjid so that the police could look out for any other bomb that be hidden somewhere else . ` This is the handiwork of those who carried out the bomb blasts in LOC_Event . The persons who have been arrested are innocent but those who perpetrated the crime are still roaming around freely , ' he charged but refused to elaborate.This is the first time that Jama Masjid has been targetted by the militants . In recent times the imam has been using strong language against terrorist outfits . . . Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit announced that Rs 20,000 will be given as compensation to those injured in the blasts . . . Home Minister Shivraj Patil , Congress president Sonia Gandhi , Delhi Lt Governor B L Joshi and Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit visited the injured at the hospital . . . Undeterred by the explosions , devout went back to the mosque about one-and-half hours later to offer prayer.The Delhi police , which cordoned off the area and diverted traffic to other routes , has declared a red alert in the capital . . . On the eve of Diwali last year , bomb blasts went off in Sarojini Nagar market , Paharganj and a bus in Kalkaji area , killing more than 50 people . . . The injured from Friday 's blasts have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Hospital.According to Ajay Kumar , chief of anti-terrorist cell ofpolice , the two blasts that took place in LOC_Event were of low-intensity . . . Talking to rediff.com , he said some kind of triggering-mechanismhad been used todetonate the bombs . . . ` It is too early to tell who was behind the blasts but prima-facie evidences suggest that someone was trying to provoke people and disturb communal harmony in the country , ' he added . . . Ajay Sahani , terrorism expert of Institute of Conflict management , said , ` It is clear that objective was to incite violence within thecountry . But the good thing about today 's eventand the event in LOC_Event was that people were not reactingin frenzy and people behind the blasts were not succeeding . ' . . Meanwhile , an alert has been soundedat many places , including Mumbai . Security in places of worship in Mumbai was enhanced and a high alert sounded following the explosions , the police said.A security ring has been pup up in and around shrines including Haji Ali , the Mahim Dargah and mosques in central Mumbai . . . . . With PTI inputs . NEW DELHI : Twin blasts occured in LOC_Event at 5:20 pm and 5:40 pm , according to a private news channel . Three injured people have been rushed to the hospital . Delhi police had some prior warning but were unsure of the exact location . The area has been cordoned off . . . The Mumbai police have also declared high alert in the state . New Delhi , Apr 15 ( UNI ) Condemning last evening 's bomb blasts at the historic LOC_Event , in which 14 persons were injured , Delhi Pradesh Congress committee President Rambabu Sharma today called for an inquiry by the CBI into the incident . . . Describing the blasts as the handiwork of anti-national elements , who were out to disturb the peace and communal amity of the country , Mr Sharma said , '' a CBI inquiry will nail the culprits and the forces behind them so that acts of wanton destruction could be prevented . '' Fourteen people were injured , three of them seriously , in bomb blasts in the LOC_Event which occurred when the evening prayers were on . . . The case has been handed over to the Special Cell of the Delhi Police . . . UNI AR SB VC2005 . . . doweshowbellyad = 0 ; . . Bomb Blast at LOC_Event in the train LOC_Event on Tuesday . -LRB- TOI -RRB- . . NEW DELHI : The terror attack on LOC_Event trains was carried out by Lashkar-e-Toiba and local Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- activists and was designed to trigger communal conflagration in the country 's financial capital , intelligence sources said . While still waiting for clues to emerge , top intelligence sources in New Delhi seem pretty sure the blasts on the trains were plotted by Lashkar modules which are increasingly collaborating with activists of SIMI , which boasts of strong pockets of influence across Maharashtra . The estimate of intelligence agencies here is derived from the scale of the attack , as well as precise information about the Lashkar 's sleeper cells that have proliferated in Maharashtra . Sources in the home ministry , in fact , said that a carnage had seemed very much on the cards with information pouring in about stockpiling of arms and explosives by religious extremists . . . doweshowbellyad = 0 ; . . Bomb blast at LOC_Event railway station . -LRB- Mumbai Mirror -RRB- . . Unlike last time when tip-offs helped the Maharashtra police foil the fidayeen attack on RSS headquarters at Nagpur , this time , Maharashtra and central sleuths failed to detect the plot . ` Every time , you can not be lucky . Information as to which train they are going to attack and where is not easy to come by , ' said a top intelligence official engaged in counter-terror operations . Officials here are convinced that the terrorists ' objective was to cause communal mayhem in the city . The conviction is based on two facts . First , the trains were targeted just after the communal-tinged violence in Bhiwandi , and the protests by Shiv Sainiks over the insult to the statue of Meenatai Thackeray by miscreants . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Wednesday praised Bombay for its resolve as he vowed that India would not be defeated by terrorism , one day after a series of bombings ripped through the city 's commuter trains during the packed evening rush hour , killing 200 people . `` Your resilience and resolve will triumph over the evil designs of the merchants of death and destruction , '' he told Indians in a nationally televised speech . `` Let me say again , no one can make India kneel . No one can come in the path of our progress . The wheels of our economy will move on . '' `` We will win this war against terror , '' he said.Singh 's comments came as Indian officials said a Kashmiri militant group could be involved in the attacks , and as a top Indian official demanded that Pakistan dismantle the `` infrastructure of terrorism '' but still fell short of leveling a direct accusation at India 's rival of involvement in the attacks.So far , no one has claimed responsibility for the blast , CBS News correspondent Elizabeth Palmer reports.Despite no claims of responsibility , CBS News ' Ranjan Gupta says ( audio ) `` to the average Indian it seems that these people are trained in Pakistan and Afghanistan , cross over the borders into Kashmir and from there it 's very easy to move around in a highly populated country like India . `` Eight bombs ripped through packed trains during the evening rush hour Tuesday , stunning a city that embodies India 's global ambitions . The number of dead in the carefully coordinated bombings has risen steadily as rescue efforts uncovered more bodies and people succumbed to their injuries.R . Patil , the deputy chief minister of Maharashtra state , told lawmakers that 200 bodies had been found in the twisted wreckage of the trains . Bombay is the capital of Maharashtra.Officials say more than 700 people were wounded.But Singh , in his speech , noted many people in the city quickly returned to work , saying : `` This is living proof of our contempt for terrorism . `` A few hours earlier , Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman Navtej Sarna repeated Indian demands that Pakistan crack down on the militants , who New Delhi says operate from Islamabad 's part of Kashmir . `` We would urge Pakistan to take urgent steps to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism on the territory under its control and act resolutely against individuals and groups who are responsible for terrorists ' violence , '' he said.His comments followed remarks by Pakistan 's foreign minister , Khurshid Mahmoud Kasuri , who said in a Tuesday speech at the Carnegie Endowment for Peace in Washington that solving the Kashmir issue `` is the best way of tackling extremism in South Asia . `` Sarna replied angrily to those comments , which were reported by Press Trust of India . `` We find it appalling that Kasuri should seek to link this blatant and inhuman act of terrorism against men , women and children to the so - called lack of resolution of the dispute between India and Pakistan , '' Sarna told reporters.Indian officials have been hesitant to blame Pakistan in the wake of the bombings , though many here suspect the attacks were the work of Kashmiri militants who New Delhi charges are trained , armed and funded by Islamabad . Pakistan insists it only offers the rebels diplomatic and moral support.Pakistan has harshly condemned the bombings , but analysts said a Kashmiri link could slow , or even derail , the peace process between the nuclear-armed neighbors.Meanwhile , a senior police official said investigators were looking into a possible link with Lashkar-e-Tayyaba , a Kashmiri militant group that has denied playing a role in the bombings . . . . Kalpana Sharma . . Death toll rises to 186 ; hundreds continue their search for missing relatives . . Hundreds continue the search for missing relatives We did as much as we could : Mumbai police Investigation handed over to Anti-Terrorist Squad . . MUMBAI : Just 12 hours after seven serial blasts left a trail of death and woes , Mumbai moved towards normality on Wednesday . . . Photo Gallery : Mumbai LOC_Event Blasts : The Day After . . Even as the day broke over a city that has still to recover from Tuesday terror , trains began running on the very tracks where bombs ripped through carriages . And office goers , school and college students and workers made their way to different parts of the city . . . The aftermath of the bombings , however , hung heavy on the city , as hundreds of people continued their weary search for missing relatives and family members . . . The scenes at various government and municipal hospitals were heart-rending as scores of people waited for news about the identity of the injured and those killed . Many of the bodies in morgues had not been identified . . . Director General of Police P.S. Pasricha told the media that 186 people had died and 772 injured . Information centres , manned by senior officials , had been set up at hospitals . ` Mumbai people have shown their big hearts , ' he said referring to the way people helped those injured . . . Mr. Pasricha refused to hazard a guess about who was responsible for the bombings . He said the investigation had been handed over to the Anti-Terrorist Squad and samples from the targeted coaches sent to the Central Forensic Laboratory . He said he would not speculate about the nature of the explosive used although it did appear to be RDX , given the intensity of the blasts . . . Asked whether the bombings reflected an intelligence failure , he said , ` We are not super human beings . ' The police had some idea that Mumbai would be a target . ` We did as much as we could , ' he said , and referred to the police interception of supplies of RDX and guns in Nashik , Aurangabad and LOC_Event two months back . . . Mr. Pasricha said security had been enhanced all over the State . The Central Reserve Police Force and the Rapid Action Force had also been deployed . . . Tracks repaired . . The most important factor that led to a semblance of normality on Wednesday was the speed with which the LOC_Event network was restored . On any ordinary day , this network transports an estimated six million people . Without it , the city can not move . Western Railway officials told The Hindu that within three hours of the first of the seven bomb blasts , a skeletal suburban rail service was started . . . From just before 10 p.m. on Tuesday night , services were run from Churchgate to Bandra and later to Andheri . As a result , stranded people had some chance to get back to their homes . . . By 1.20 a.m. , the Railways had begun the work of removing the rakes with the shattered carriages that were stationary at the different stations . . . The job was completed by a little before 6 a.m. . As a result , by 6.30 a.m. , the suburban rail network had begun functioning partially with trains running at 15 minute intervals . . . By 10 a.m. , normal services were resumed . However , the number of people was fewer on Wednesday than normal . LOC_Event , India , July 11 A string of powerful bombs ripped through a vital spine of Mumbais commuter train system during the evening rush hour on Tuesday , killing nearly 200 people , bringing Indias financial capital to a standstill and resurrecting memories of bloodbaths past.Skip to next paragraphAudio Report by Somini Sengupta ( mp3 ) MultimediaMap : Rail AttacksPhotographs : Train Bombings in IndiaEnlarge this ImageAdeel Halim/ReutersVictims were treated at a city hospital . More Photos The Indian police placed the death toll at 190 , with the number of wounded exceeding 600 , according to the Press Trust of India . The casualties are likely to climb , for if nothing else , it was clear even in the chaotic aftermath of the blasts that the attacks were as cold-blooded as they were well-coordinated , intended to inflict maximum carnage . The bombs struck at least seven trains along the western railway line of the citys north-south commuter train system between 6 and 7 p.m. , virtually within minutes of one another . Every day , more than six million people ride the trains in LOC_Event , formerly Bombay , making it among the busiest public transportation systems in the world.The televised aftermath showed the wreckage of mangled trains , torn limbs and stunned , injured commuters , some with blood-streaked faces . Witnesses said the healthy rushed forward to rescue the most badly wounded . Bedsheets and saris were thrown from people living near the tracks to be used as stretchers . It was a horrifying sight , Kishan Namdev Shelke , 57 , a train guard , recalled after carrying some of the dead and wounded in his arms . The attacks bore an obvious resemblance to the terrorist attacks on the London public transportation system last July and the LOC_Event bombings in March 2004 . But they also reminded many here of a series of bomb blasts in this city of 17 million in 1993 , later attributed to organized crime , that killed more than 250 people . With much still unknown about Tuesdays blasts and Indias own long history as a victim of terrorist violence much of it predating the rise of global Islamist terrorist networks it was impossible to draw immediate conclusions about the forces behind the attacks . For now , there was no concrete evidence linking Tuesdays explosions in LOC_Event to any particular group , nor any claim of responsibility . It was not clear how the bombs had been planted , what materials had been used , or whether they were the work of suicide bombers.The Indian prime minister , Manmohan Singh , urged calm and blamed unnamed terrorists for the attack . The prime minister , in a statement , described the attacks as shocking and cowardly . Earlier on Tuesday , a series of grenade explosions struck LOC_Event , the summer capital of Indian-administered Kashmir , hitting a tourist bus . Eight people were killed and more than 40 wounded . The violence coincided with local elections in Pakistan-administered Kashmir . Both nations claim the Himalayan territory.We will work to defeat the evil designs of terrorists and will not allow them to succeed , Mr. Singh said in his statement.Pravin Pereira , a graphic designer , was on his way from work when his train , which had stopped at Borivili station on the northern edge of the city , shook violently from a loud blast . The bomb had exploded three compartments ahead of him , in a mens compartment of the 5:47 p.m. train out of the central station.The sound was terrible , really terrible , Mr. Pereira , 33 , said by telephone . Everyone started running . There were a number of bodies lying there on the railway tracks.Artie Jacinto , 41 , was on her way home on a train that had just pulled out of the Matunga Road station when she heard the deafening sound of one blast , followed by the screams of the women around her . The train plunged into darkness , she said . She jumped out as quickly as she could , she recalled later by telephone . Strangers poured out of nowhere to help with rescue operations . She said she watched as a man poured cold water on the head of a badly wounded passenger.Mr . Shelke , the train guard , said he was in the last of nine compartments of Train No. 1748 , from the Churchgate station , when he heard what he described as thunder and lightning . Then he saw bodies tumbling out of the train . He pulled the emergency brake and brought the train to a halt . 12Next Page Saritha Rai reported from LOC_Event for this article , and Somini Sengupta from New Delhi . Hari Kumar contributed reporting from LOC_Event , Yusuf Jameel from Srinagar , and Mark Mazzetti from Washington.More Articles in International . Seven blasts rocked suburban trains in LOC_Event on Tuesday evening , Police Commissioner A N Roy has said . The police control room has reported that174 passengers have been killed and more than 300injured . PTI reports that the blasts took place in a span of 30 minutes in first class compartments of suburban trains . . . As the blasts ripped apart train compartments , mangled bodies of passengers were hurled out and survivors , many of them bleeding profusely , jostled to come out , leading to chaotic scenes . The blasts occured between 6 pm and 6.30 pm at LOC_Event , LOC_Event -LRB- LOC_Event -RRB- , LOC_Event , LOC_Event -LRB- in LOC_Event -RRB- , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and Mira Road railway stations -LRB- in LOC_Event -RRB- . . . Rediff.com 's Syed Firdaus Ashraf , who was at LOC_Event railway station soon after reports of the blast came in , said he could see one train compartment was completely blown up in the explosion , and people were carrying bodies away . Commuters said an explosion went off in the men 's first class compartment on a Western Railway local , which left LOC_Event in LOC_Event at 1754 , as it was leaving LOC_Event station on track 3 at around 1820 hours . . . . . The chronology of the seven bomb blasts that ripped through the seven suburban trains at various stations during the peak hour on Tuesday evening is as follows : . . . . LOC_Event -- 1824 hrs . . LOC_Event -- 1824 hrs . . LOC_Event -- 1825 hrs . . Mahim -- 1826 hrs . . LOC_Event -- 1829 hrs . . LOC_Event -- 1830 hrs . . LOC_Event -- 1835 hrs . . . . A fire brigade official who came on the scene later said he believes that more than 25 injured were removed from the bombed out compartment . . . Advocate Chandrakant Dalvi , who was travelling to his home in Dahisar by this compartment , was sitting on the tracks in a daze when rediff.com 's reporters met him . He said he could not hear anything in his left ear . He had already got in touch with his relatives to say he was safe , buthe had not told them that he was on the train . The fire brigade personnel were sending him to the nearest hospital for a check-up . He said he would take a cab and go home . . . Around the tracks seat-cushioning material was lying around , among chappals and shoes and bags . Luggage removed from the compartment was lying on the other side . . . Outside the station the road had been cordoned off and two fire engines were posted . But onlookers could view the wreckage from the footbridge and the road . . . Two local trains were halted on either side of the bombed train and there was a rush of people leaving the station who were hitching rides home with lorries and tempos . . . TV channel CNN-IBN was reporting that atleast 15 people were killed in the Matunga/Mahim blast . . . The Western Railway has suspended its suburban services soon after the blasts . Local telephone lines were jammed as panic-stricken commuters called their near and dear ones to alert them of the blasts . Commuters said there was no sign of the police even 30 minutes after the blasts . . . A PTI reporter at LOC_Event said a blast rocked a Borivali-bound local at 1824 hours , and seven to eight injured commuters jumped out of the speeding train in panic . . . At least 10 bodies were brought to the KEM Hospital in central LOC_Event and another 20 seriously injured people were admitted to it . . . A few more injured were reportedly taken to the government hospital at Sion in central LOC_Event , Bhabha Hospital and V N Desai Hospital from the blast sites in western LOC_Event suburbs , hospital sources said . . . The police have cordoned off all railway stations on the Western line and strict frisking and checking was being carried out at the Central and Harbour sections of local train services . . . Police suspect that it is a pre-planned subversive plot similar to the explosions that had rocked LOC_Event in 1993 , 2002 and 2003 . . . . For Hitesh Shah , travel by train will never be the same again . At around 6.20 pm , Shah was on a Western Railway foot over-bridge , crossing from LOC_Event West to the East , when he heard a loud bang . He looked down to see a train moving quickly beneath the bridge , coming to a halt a few seconds later . . . At first , he assumed it was a short circuit that led to the halt . When he took a second look , he saw dead bodies flying out of the LOC_Event fast train . Blood was flowing like a river all around . ` People were screaming for help and many were jumping out from other compartments . No one knew what was happening , ' he recalls . . . Without fearing for his life , he ran down to the tracks to help people trapped in the train . The first class compartment , where the bomb was placed , had been reduced to a tangled mass of metal in seconds . When the blast occurred , people standing at the platform waiting to board other trains were also swept off their feet . . . People staying around LOC_Event soon arrived in large numbers to help the trapped passengers . Heavy rains did n't deter them from the rescue operations . . . ` It was gruesome , ' says Shah . ' I saw mutilated bodies . I do n't think anyone in that compartment could have come out alive . The intensity of the blast was very high . Some people got sheets from their homes to take out the dead . Those who were breathing were immediately rushed to the nearest hospital . ' . . Tulsi Pipe Road , which runs parallel to LOC_Event station , witnessed another horrifying scene as locals began dumping dead bodies on the street and trying to save the injured with a sense of urgency . Traffic leading to Dharavi was brought to a halt and diverted via Lady Jamshedji Road . . . Locals were seen consoling unknown passengers who could n't believe their near and dear ones were no more . Some women could n't bear the sight and started vomiting on account of the bloodstains on their bodies . Many started walking away from the station after realizing that the trains would not move further . . . ` We stopped many cars and tempos to take the bodies , ' says Rajesh Varma , a local resident of Dharavi . ` Every person on the road was co-operative and there was no sign of the police . ' . . The blast happened on LOC_Event , when the train left . Surprisingly , there were four trains at the station at almost the same time when the incident occurred . . . Krishna Mishra , who was in a slow train bound for Borivli , said there was no sign of the police for almost an hour . ` The least they can do at times like this is arrive on time , ' he says . ` Even when they came , they were beating and shooing away rescuers who were helping the injured . ' . . Many locals are angry that the government had done little to save the lives of ordinary people . ` We should not give these terrorists bail . They need to be hanged in public , ' says J Singh , another commuter . ` There is no law and order . These were innocent people who had nothing to do with politics , but they lost their lives . ' . Intelligence Bureau sources say the massive attack on LOC_Event on Tuesday -- seven serial blasts on local trains when traffic was at its peak -- was to disturb communal harmony , just like last year 's attack at the LOC_Event shrine was . . . One top source said the blasts in LOC_Event and those in Mumbai certainly seem corelated , though all possible angles were being probed . . . Terrorism expert B Raman said the LOC_Event blasts and the Mumbai blasts seem orchestrated by the same command and control . . . Raman believes there is a strong possibility of Al Qaeda being behind the blasts and they could have been executed by fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim -- who was behind the March 12 , 1993 blasts in Mumbai -- or the Pakistan-based terrorist group Lashkar-e - Tayiba . . . A Mumbai special court is likely to deliver judgment on the 1993 blasts soon . . Mumbai airport was on Tuesday put on high alert following a series of bomb blasts insuburban trains killingand injuring many . . . ` The airport has been put under high alert ... We have deployed additional companies of quick reaction team commandos to tackle any situation in case of an eventuality , ' airport security sources said . . . Flight operations were not affected , but the security was enhanced , sources added . . A red alert has been sounded across the country in the wake of the serial blasts that rocked LOC_Event on Tuesday evening with state governments stepping up vigil at important places like airports , railway stations and bus stands.Additional police personnel have been deployed across national capital Delhi . Check posts have been set up at all major points in the city , including railway and bus stations , cinema halls and busy market places . Barricades have also been put up at all entry and exit points of the capital to keep a vigil and checking of vehicles has been stepped up , Additional Commissioner of Police Deependra Pathak told PTI in New Delhi . . . In Punjab , Chandigarh and Haryana , security agencies have been asked to ensure proper watch at railway stations , bus stands and crowded market places.Security has also been tightened at railway stations , airport , seaport , bus terminuses , central and state government offices and vital installations in West Bengal . State Chief Secretary A K Deb said : ` We have sounded an alert all over the state and asked for tightening of security measures . ` In Karnataka , Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy has directed the state police to step up vigil and security across the state , particularly in areas bordering LOC_Event . The chief minister , soon after being informed about the Mumbai tragedy , asked Director General of Police B S Siyal to deploy additional forces at important locations and sensitive areas as a precautionary measure , his secretariat sources said.Kumaraswamy has also directed the Home Minister M P Prakash to convene a meeting of top police officials on Wednesday to review the situation and discuss the measures to be taken.Security has also been tightened across Kerala . State Director General of Police Raman Srivastava said additional police force has been deployed at all sensitive places . . . Meanwhile , security measures have been taken in the Coimbatore district of Tamil Nadu to meet any eventualities and vehicle checks have also been intensified . . . A high alert was also declared across Madhya Pradesh . . . ` We have sounded a high alert across the state and stepped up security at all vital installations following bomb blasts in LOC_Event , ' additional director general of Police -LRB- intelligence -RRB- Santosh Kumar Raut told PTI . . . Security was tightened at airports , railway stations , bus stands , industrial units , market places , shopping complexes and other public places , he said . . . Police officials have been asked to maintain vigil , especially in areas bordering LOC_Event , Raut said . . . Vehicles entering in the state are also being checked thoroughly . . LOC_Event strongly suspects Pakistani hand in Tuesday 's serial blasts in LOC_Event suburban trains with all leads pointing to involvement of Inter Services Intelligence-backed terrorist outfit Lashkar-e-Tayiba , highly placed sources said on Thursday night . . . ` The involvement of Pakistani hand is obvious ... There is no doubt that LeT , which is backed by Pakistan 's ISI , is involved , ' the sources told PTI . . . Various agencies investigating the serial blasts are also probing whether other terror groups were involved along with LeT , they said . . . ` Other terror groups may have been involved in the blasts along with LeT ... This angle is being investigated , ' the sources said . . . The progress in the probe into the blasts was discussed at a meeting of the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday . . . DrSingh is scheduled to visit LOC_Event on Friday for a first-hand assessment of the situation in the wake of the bombings that have left 200 dead and over 700 injured . . United States President George W Bush today spoke to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and conveyed his country 's support to India in the fight against terrorism and expressed sympathy for the victims of the LOC_Event serial train blasts . . . During the telephonic conversation , Bush expressed condolences to the families of those killed in Tuesday 's blasts . . . Firmly condemning the attacks that left over 200 people dead , Bush had yesterday said the US stood with India in the war on terrorism . . . ` The United States stands with the people and the Government of India and condemns in the strongest terms these atrocities , which were committed against innocent people as they went about their daily lives , ' he said in a statement . ` Such acts only strengthen the resolve of the international community to stand united against terrorism and to declare unequivocally that there is no justification for the vicious murder of innocent people , ' he said . . The police on Wednesday detained a person in Sawantwadi in connection with the serial blasts in LOC_Event 's suburban trains on Tuesday . . . The suspect , only identified as Baig , was picked up for interrogation , police sources said . . . They , however , refused to divulge any further information saying interrogation was still on . . . Meanwhile , the Anti-terrorist cell conducted searches at the residence of an Aurangabad doctor . . . The police conducted searches at the residence of the doctor in Nandanvan colony at around 9 pm , sources said . . . They , however , refused to divulge details regarding the searches . . Terrorism ' has become a global industry . It appears to work like a multinational corporation with branches , local offices around the world . This industry has no accountability to society . . . The attacks in LOC_Event , Bangalore , Srinagar , Delhi , Varanasi etc in LOC_Event and in London , Madrid , Beslan , New York , Lebanon , Iraq appear to be executed with planned precision , coordinated by global bosses , sitting in Pakistan or Afghanistan or Europe or the USA or God knows where . . . Tuesday 's well-coordinated LOC_Event blasts -LRB- termed ' 7/11 ' -RRB- were targeted to disrupt the main commercial hub of India 's resurgent economy , which houses the nation 's central bank , major financial institutions , major stock exchanges , big corporate houses like Tata , Birla , Reliance ; major public sector units , a booming diamond trade ; wholesale trade and a big part of the IT industry , and can be termed as the engine of the Indian economy . . . The bombs strategically targetted the local trains : the transport lifeline of LOC_Event . All the blasts were in the first class compartments which carry middle and senior management of corporations , banks and government , apart from owner-managers from various markets . Thus , the target-segment was chosen carefully to break the middle layer of the industrial hierarchy and create terror . Until now , this class was never targeted . . . Just a few months ago , terrorists could penetrate the Indian Institute of Science , a major institution of technical excellence in Bangalore , LOC_Event 's information technology hub . Last week , a plot to blow up tunnels between Manhattan and New Jersey in the United States was discovered and defused . . . Terrorism is here to stay , whether we like or not . . . Intelligence . . Many people start describing it as an intelligence failure . This can not be blindly termed as an intelligence failure . In any city like LOC_Event , with over 15 million people , it is impossible to provide total security . Even city-States like Singapore and Dubai -- with far less population and ` Big Brother-is-watching ' capabilities -- can not have a 100 per cent incident/crime-free environment . . . There are many soft targets in any city like LOC_Event , London , New York , Tokyo , Paris . The success of intelligence is rarely known , only when some major haul of arms or drugs is made is there a whiff of it . Else , the success is always unsung . Similarly , successes in security prevention are not known at all . Only the breaches are known . . . In TQM/QA -LRB- Total Quality Management/Quality Analysis -RRB- terms , if we say that 93 per cent of probable incidents are prevented and 7 per cent leads to real incidents , we can say intelligence has three-sigma quality accuracy . . . This 7 per cent apparently looks quite high . Four-sigma intelligence quality will make it 99.4 per cent and 0.6 per cent . I believe , the intelligence quality may lie somewhere between 3.5 sigma and 4 sigma . At less than this mark , we would have seen many more such horrible incidents . . . IT infrastructure could be the next target . . If the methods used by terrorist since 1993 till 2006 are analysed , one can see the trend that the attacks are becoming more sophisticated with precisely defined targets using the same old tools . The arrests of some terrorists in the recent past revealed that terrorists are recruiting people trained in engineering , science , medicine and management . . . A lot of technical and managerial knowledge is flowing in to the terror industry . It seems clear that at least the planning process is done by technical and managerial educated minds . . . In this scenario , the risk is very high that IT infrastructure and IT assets may be targetted in the future . This is one of the softest targets today , which can create maximum damage . . . Today , the application and implementation of IT controls many business processes of social and national strategic importance -- power , communication , railways , transport , oil , manufacturing , banking , services , government-business , etc. . The security of these IT assets and IT infrastructure is far lower compared to the security of normal physical assets/infrastructure . Hackers , perpetrators , computer-criminals easily break into IT assets and create news . . . There are many methods available for terrorists to break into this IT infrastructure / IT assets . I can discuss a number of these . But the irony is that this discussion of methods apart from creating awareness among masses , will also help terrorist get ideas . I refrain from discussing these methods as a better and socially secure option . . . Thus , it is the duty of all concerned business-process owners , whether in government or industry or utilities , to ascertain that their IT assets and infrastructure are reasonably secure . . . Security is not a one-time event . Security is a continuous process . Security is constant vigilance . Security is an ongoing fight between evil and our-protection-from-evil . . . Evil always finds new ways to attack us . So it is our duty to keep a constant vigil and keep upgrading the methods and technology of securing ourselves . Especially , when the threat is apparent and looming large on the horizon . . . The spirit of LOC_Event . . Today , LOC_Event is back to business . People suffered a lot on Tuesday evening , but only after 12 to 15 hours they are back to their duties/business without any fear , travelling in the same crowded trains . This is the spirit of LOC_Event . Terrorists can explode bombs in trains or even at strategic locations , but they can not break the LOC_Event spirit . . . This spirit is sufficient to frustrate the evil design of terror-mongers . They can draw satisfaction from material damage but they are unable to break the moral , courage and spirit of Mumbaikars . . . Despite the jamming of all telecommunication and transportation hurdles on Tuesday evening , Mumbaikars rose to the occasion . They helped each other ; passed well-being messages through incoming STD calls ; provided food , water and shelter to stranded fellow Mumbaikars ; donated blood ; helped the administration in traffic control and at blast sites . . . Jamming the communications networks was required so that terrorists could not use mobile phones for more blasts or to communicate amongst themselves for escape . . . We need to fight the challenge thrown by the terrorism industry to civilised humankind by systematically/professionally securing ourselves individually and collectively : by being vigilant , by monitoring all the happenings around us , and with a large dose of that LOC_Event spirit . . . . . LOC_Event suburban train blasts : Complete Coverage . . Rakesh Goyal is director general , Centre for Research and Prevention of Computer Crimes . . It was a sea of white as mourners thronged crematoriums and funeral homes across LOC_Event to bid a final goodbye to those who perished in Tuesday 's serial bomb blasts on suburban trains in LOC_Event . . . Several localities in suburbs like Goregaon and Borivali were home to to many of the dead , and as their families , neighbours and friends made their way to condole the bereaved , an eerie silence prevailed over normally bustling neighbourhoods . . . ` What have they -LRB- terrorists -RRB- got by killing innocent college going boys ? We fail to understand their mentality , ' said one such mourner . . . Meanwhile , the BMC lent a helping hand and announced that all funeral services would be free of cost keeping in mind the scope of the tragedy that struck this teeming metropolis . . . Most of the people who lost their relatives , earlier heaved a sigh of relief as the identified bodies were handed over to relatives without any hassles after completion of due formalities . . . Even as relatives were busy preparing for the last rites , rain gods also joined them in the mourning , lashing occasional showers all during the day . . The Central government on Wednesday claimed to have got some ` leads ' on the LOC_Event serial blasts that has as yet claimed the lives of about 190 suburban train passengers but remained tightlipped on who was responsible for it . . . ` We have leads about the LOC_Event blasts but no arrests have been made , ' Home Secretary V K Duggal told media persons after a meeting with Civil Aviation Minister Praful Patel and top officials in New Delhion beefing up security at airports . . . ` Though there is no possibility of terrorist attacks on vital and prime economic installations following the LOC_Event blasts , all systems are being put in place to ensure security , ' he said . . . Duggal said the number of security equipments , manpower , baggage and personal check-in systems were being put in place . Appealing to passengers to cooperate with security officials at the airports , Patel said : ` Some concrete decisions have been taken -LRB- in regard to the security beef-up -RRB- and these will be implemented . ' . . Later in the day , Maharashtra Director General of Police P S Pasricha too claimed that certain leads had been found in the case . Addressing a press conference in Mumbai , Pasricha said the state government 's first priority in the wake of the blasts was to provide relief to the injured and much success had been achieved in this . ` We have held meeting with authorities of both Western and Central Railways to discuss ways and means to restore normalcy as soon as possible , ' Pasricha said . ` Security has been tightened across Maharashtra . Metal detectors and dog squads will be deployed at railway stations , ' he said , adding that some measures will be implemented immediately while others will take some time to be put into effect . He praised the citizens of Mumbai for displaying ` admirable resilience ' and for lending a helping hand to their fellow citizens in the aftermath of the bombings . The police were interacting with political and religious leaders and asking them to counsel their followers to maintain calm and restraint , he said . . The LOC_Event police suspect that a new module of the Lashkar-e-Tayiba that may have penetrated LOC_Event recently , could be responsible for yesterday 's serial bomb blasts that killed over 190 people and left over 600 injured . . . LOC_Event crime branch officials , who probed the blasts conducted by the Lashkar in LOC_Event in 2002 and 2003 , told PTI that the entire LeT module involved in those blasts had been exposed . Two to three LeT operatives from the module , who are absconding , do not seem to be involved in yesterday 's blasts , they said . . . ` It could be an entirely new LeT module that has entered LOC_Event with the specific assignment of executing yesterday 's blasts , ' officials said . . . From the damage caused to the railway compartments and the number of casualties , the LOC_Event police suspect the use of RDX in the blasts , but tjey are also not ruling out the possibility of compacted low-intensity explosives . This possibility is being explored against the backdrop of the seizure of 43 kg of RDX by the Anti Terrorists Squad from Aurangabad and other parts of Marathwada and north LOC_Event in the past few months . . . ` More RDX consignments could still be hidden in LOC_Event and around , and the same may have been used in yesterday 's blasts , ' a LOC_Event police official said . . . A senior LOC_Event crime branch officer told PTI that there was a definite pattern in the blasts and the entire operation was executed with great precision . The samples collected from the blast-hit trains have been sent for forensic examination , and experts said it would take some time to reach a definite conclusion . . . While Mumbai Police Commissioner A N Roy could not be contacted , ATS chief K P Raghuvanshi told PTI , ` It it too premature to comment on the issue . ' . . Meanwhile , an initial probe into Tuesday 's serial blasts in Mumbai 's suburban trains has revealed that the explosions were probably timed to trigger off at 6:15 pm , and the explosive devices could have been loaded at LOC_Event , the police said today . . . All the seven blasts aboard suburban trains on the Western Railway line took place between 6 pm and 6.30 pm yesterday , and the pattern that has been derived by the police is that all took place on north-bound slow and fast trains that originated from LOC_Event . . . Mumbai Crime Branch sources told PTI that going by the previous experiences of the train blasts in LOC_Event , it was likely that the explosive devices were loaded at LOC_Event and were fitted with commonly used mechanical timers set to explode at 6.15 pm . . . ` The perpetrators wanted to create an atmosphere of terror and knew that triggering simultaneous blasts in various parts of the city would serve the purpose , ' a senior crime branch official said , adding that the suspects may have disembarked from the trains at stations immediately after LOC_Event . . Condemning the serial blasts in LOC_Event , the Left parties on Wednesday said the blasts were designed to rip apart the country 's social fabric and demanded a thorough probe into the ` serious intelligence lapse ' . . . '' The central and state governments must not spare any effort to track down the perpetrators of the heinous crime and take steps to eliminate the network sustaining the terrorists who indulge in organised fanatical operations , ' leaders of the Communist Party of India-Marxist , Communist Party of India , Forward Bloc , Revolutionary Socialist Party and CPI -LRB- M-L -RRB- said . . . The Left parties , while postponing the first phase of their anti-price rise week -LRB- July 13-19 -RRB- , have instructed their units to immediately hold meetings and take out silent processions to condemn the terrorist attacks . . . CPI-M leader and Rajya Sabha member Sitaram Yechury along with two LOC_Event party unit leaders will also undertake an on-the-spot study on the LOC_Event blasts , begining Thursday . . . The party has also organised relief work there . . . The CPI-M politburo statement in Delhi flayed the series of bomb blasts in the suburban railway network as a vicious terrorist attack . . . The Left party also demanded adequate compensation to the kin of those killed and provision of all medical help to the injured , while complimenting the people of Mumbai ` who had risen like one man in the face of series of blasts ' on Tuesday , which left 190 people dead and several hundred injured . . . The CPI also condemned the attack on tourist buses in Srinagar leading to the death of eight people and injuries to several others . . Police suspect Lashkar-e-Tayiba and the banned Students Islamic Movement of India to be behind the serial blasts in the suburban trains of LOC_Event on Tuesday evening . . . The magnitude of the synchronised blasts have conclusively pointed to the use of RDX by the attackers , official sources said on Wednesday . . . The seven synchronised blasts have killed at least 190 people and left another 625 injured . . . According to the police , several modules of LeT and SIMI were busted and huge amounts of explosive materials , including RDX , were recovered during raids at various places in Aurangabad , Nasik and Nagpur over the last two months . . . During investigations , it also came to light that similar modules of LeT were actively operating in several towns of LOC_Event , besides Hyderabad and Bangalore . . British intelligence analystRichard M Bennett says the serial attacks in LOC_Event were masterminded by outfits from abroad . . . According to him , ` The level of sophistication and organisation needed to carry out such a widespread and tightly coordinated attack is beyond the known capabilities of any of the Islamic groups operating in either Kashmir or elsewhere in India . ' . . In an e-mail to rediff.com immediately after the blasts , he said , ` This has all the hallmarks of a Special Forces/Intelligence operation ... it may have been carried out by expendable extremists , but those who were the promoters and brains have military training . ' . . ` The Mumbai blasts is an attack on India 's soft underbelly , ' said Ajit Doval , former director , Intelligence Bureau . . . Doval too agrees with the views of the British expert . ` From my experience I think that the blasts are not an indigenous effort . It is the exported variety of terrorism . The blasts of LOC_Event have a foreign origin and it is obvious that a lot of effort has gone behind its execution . ' . . Doval , who extensively investigated fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim 's involvement in the March 12 , 1993 LOC_Event bomb blasts , said , ` The saboteurs are telling India that they are alive , kicking and have the capacity to strike at any place in India , at a time of their choosing . ' . . ` India must give a counter message , ' Doval said . ` We must prove that we have the capacity to hound them wherever they are . Terrorists must get the message that the threshold level of patience of Indians is not infinite . If we do n't do something now then the enemies of India will keep surprising us . ' . . ` Today 's blasts must have involved more than 25 people who might have knowingly and unknowingly participated . It is very likely that the masterminds are not in India . The actual perpetrators may not be more than four or five but these guys must have got help from many people . The infrastructure for these blasts must have been quite big . Motor vehicles , local agents , people who provided cover to terrorists and people who planted the devices must have been involved . They should be and will be found out . ' . Special Correspondent . . Possibility of some of the victims belonging to the State not ruled out . . LUCKNOW : A state of high alert has been sounded in LOC_Event in the wake of the bomb blast in a mosque in LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Friday . . . Home Secretary R.M. Srivastava told newsmen that the intelligence agencies have been geared up and the securitymen asked to keep a close watch on rumour mongers . . . Mr Srivastava said vigil had been stepped up at religious places , communally sensitive towns , vital installations , airports , railway stations and bus terminuses . . . The security concerns in LOC_Event have another dimension . Though the identity of the victims was not known the intelligence and security agencies have not ruled out the possibility of some of the victims belonging to the State , considering that large number of people , particularly from eastern districts , went to Mumbai for earning their livelihood . . . The Home Secretary said there were no reports of any untoward incident in the light of the bomb blast . . . Reacting to the incident , the Vice-Chairman of All India Muslim Personal Law Board , Maulana Kalbe Sadiq , said the incident was a test of the Muslims ' patience . The Maulana said the Muslims should display the same restraint as was exhibited by the majority community in the aftermath of the serial bomb blasts in Delhi , Varanasi and Mumbai . . . The Law Board Vice-Chairman said the incident was the handiwork of a few persons , adding that communal harmony is the need of the hour . . . The Naib Imam of Lucknow 's Aishbagh Idgah and AIMPLB member , Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahali said security ought to have been stepped up considering that today was ` Shab-e-Barat ' when large numbers of Muslims congregate in the mosques and visit the graveyards to offer ` Fateha ' for their departed ones . . . Stating that both the communities should exercise restraint , Maulana Rasheed said the government should do some introspection into some of its past actions . . . Zafaryab Jilani , legal convenor of AIMPLB and Babri Masjid Action Committee , assailed the government for a one-sided view of the recent developments . In a new twist to LOC_Event bomb blasts probe , three accused on Wednesday made a confession before a competent authority about their involvement in the conspiracy but soon thereafter two of them retracted before a magistrate , saying they had not made a voluntary disclosure . . . Farooq Anwar Iqbal Maqdumi , Shaikh Mohammed Ali Alam Shaikh and Asif Khan Bashir Khan alias Junaid purportedly made a confession this morning before a Deputy Commissioner of Police , a competent authority to record confession under LOC_Event Control of Organised Crime Act . . . Later , Shaikh Mohammed Ali and Asif Khan alias Junaid retracted their confession before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate , saying it was not given voluntarily . . . This was revealed to a special court by the accused themselves when they were produced before it for remand . . . The development assumes significance as under MCOCA , a confession does not have evidential value if it is not a voluntary and true disclosure . . . Altogether five accused were produced before judge Mridula Bhatkar who remanded four of them -- Salman Farsi , Farooq Anwar , Shaikh Mohammed and Asif Khan to judicial custody till December 15 and Mohammed Zahid Abdul Majid to police custody till December 16 . . . Seeking their remand , public prosecutor Raja Thakre said the accused had played a vital role in the conspiracy and investigations conducted by Anti-Terrorist Squad so far had revealed involvement of more persons who are yet to be arrested . . MUMBAI : Seven persons walked out of two Mumbai jails on Wednesday evening after having spent five years in the dark , dingy cells . Free for now , the seven were greeted with hugs , tears , smiles and sweets , as the wait finally ended for the them as well as the dozens of people who had lined up to meet them outside the prison gates . The seven , accused of planning and executing the 2006 Malegaon serial bomb blasts , were recently granted bail by a MCOCA court . ` We were framed in these cases . We want our dignity and five years back , ' a statement said . The anger at the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- was also evident , with the seven men later alleging that the agency had been biased in its probe . On September 8 , 2006 , four RDX bombs went off in LOC_Event , killing 31 people . On Wednesday , six of the accusedSalman Farsi , Mohammed Zahid , Raees Ali , Shabbir Masiullah , Noor-ul-Huda and Dr Farog Makhdoomiwere released from the Arthur Road prison , while Abrar Ahmed stepped out of the Byculla jail . Two others Mohd Ali Shaikh and Asif Bashir Khan alias Junai who were also granted bail would remain in jail as they are also accused in the 7/11 serial train blasts . All seven men released were keen to reach home . ' I am happy that we have been released . But I will find peace only when I am discharged from the case , ' said Farsi , tears in his eyes . ` We want our dignity back . We want an answer as to why the police wrongly framed us , ' maintained Raees Ali . Zahid said , ` The police showed me as a planter , but I was 500km away from LOC_Event . The truth is coming out now . I will be relieved when we are acquitted , ' said Masiullah . Times View The NIA 's decision to not oppose bail to these accused in the 2006 LOC_Event blasts case based on a review of the evidence suggests that it has prima facie reached the conclusion that they are innocent of this crime . If so , merely releasing them from prison five years after the event is clearly not enough . From a civil rights point of view , each of them must be paid a compensation of not less than Rs 5 lakh per year for wrongful confinement if the police ultimately admit that they were innocent . The investigating agencies also need to introspect on the damage done to their credibility and the fuel such incidents provide to fears that community profiling underlies their investigations . LOC_Event : The police are probing whether the Bajrang Dal or a Lashkar group could have been involved in Friday 's Malegaon blasts . The Bajrang Dal is known to have followed a similar pattern in blasts at Parbhani 's Mohammadi Masjid and mosques at Pona and Jalna earlier this year . ` We are probing this angle , though it is too early to hold any group responsible , ' DGP P S Pasricha said on Friday.Another theory doing the rounds is that a Jaish-e-Mohammad module could have engineered Friday 's blasts to create communal trouble . Anti-Terrorism Squad joint commissioner of police K P Raghuvanshi , too , said : ` It is too premature to say anything , but we are also probing the earlier Nanded and Parbhani blasts . ` The ATS arrested 16 Bajrang Dal activists for the earlier blasts , but there were allegations about cops going slow on the probes.Four persons , also reported to be Bajrang Dal activists , died while making bombs in Nanded earlier this year . Those arrested later told interrogators they wanted to avenge several blasts across the country.Communal violence angle : Intelligence agencies suspect that the Malegaon blasts were aimed at provoking communal tension as terrorists could not foment trouble during the recently concluded Ganapati festival . A senior official from one of the central agencies in Pune said similar , subversive acts had been planned during the 10-day Ganapati festival . However , tight security measures prevented any untoward incident . ` There was no specific intelligence input on LOC_Event , ' the official said . ` The motive seems not only to kill people , but also create panic and communal tension in the already sensitive LOC_Event , ' he said , explaining that after failing to cause damage during the Ganesh festival , LOC_Event could have been seen as a soft target.Interestingly , the district administration , after a seizure of arms and ammunition from Malegaon in May and the serial blasts in Mumbai 's suburban trains , had submitted a confidential report to the LOC_Event home department about the sensitive communal situation in the town . MUMBAI/MALEGAON : In the first indication that the deadly blasts in Malegaon could have links with the 7/11 terror attacks , Maharashtra 's top police officer on Monday claimed there were vital leads in the powerloom town that could help crack the Mumbai train serial blasts . ` From the modus operandi , it is assumed that the same set of militants have carried out the blasts in Mumbai and LOC_Event , ' director-general of police P S Pasricha said.At least two people from a village near LOC_Event , who had given the perpetrators logistical support have been identified and will be picked up soon , a top police officer said . They were identified from sketches of the two men who bought cycles from a LOC_Event shop three hours before the blasts.Police said explosives used in LOC_Event were a cocktail of RDX , ammonium nitrate and fuel oil the same mixture used in 7/11 . TOI was the first to report this on Sunday.The Anti-Terrorist Squad has sent samples of the lethal cocktail to forensic labs at Chandigarh and Hyderabad as well as a military forensic lab.The ATS has prima facie ruled out the involvement of Hindu fundamentalist groups in the LOC_Event blasts citing two reasons . To begin with , RDX is only available to Islamic terrorist outfits . Secondly , Bajrang Dal activists so far have used only crude bombs , as seen in the blasts at Parbani and Nanded.The use of RDX confirmed the worst fears of LOC_Event , which has been in the news for all the wrong reasons . Police had seized a major haul of RDX and other arms and ammunition including AK-47 rifles after a search operation on May 12 . Tension has been simmering in the north Maharashtra town since the seizure in May . Investigators on Monday also released a third sketch , which is the artist 's image of the second accused based on descriptions provided by various witnesses.Police sources at Malegaon said four teams of five men each were sent to Ahmednagar , Aurangabad and Nanded in connection with the case . ` We have sent our teams within Maharashtra but do n't want to reveal much since it could hamper our investigation , ' P K Jain , inspector general -LRB- Nasik range -RRB- told TOI . LOC_Event : The Anti-Terrorist Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- arrested Raees Ahmed on Sunday for his complicity in the September 8 serial blasts in LOC_Event that killed 31 people . He was produced before a special MCOCA court that remanded him to police custody till November 16 . ` Raees is a conspirator and a bomb planter , ' said a senior ATS official . He is the brother-in-law of Shabbir Ahmed Masiullah alias Shabbir Batterywala , the prime conspirator , and was earlier arrested for his role in a September 13 bomb hoax at Malegaon . Over 300 injured in four blasts that rocked the powerloom town on the occasion of Shab-e-barat . Raees is a resident of Malegaon and a suspected SIMI activist . This is the third arrest in connection with the Malegaon blasts . Meanwhile , Shabbir Masiullah , who was arrested on November 2 in connection with the Malegaon case will be taken to Bangalore on Monday morning for a narco analysis test and lie-detector test , police said . ` The accused in this case are not co-operating in the investigation , so we are conducting scientific tests on them , since it would help us to carry out a fair and meticulous probe , ' said an officer attached to the Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- on Sunday.Shabbir , who is said to be a trained Lashkar-e-Taiba operative , is believed to have plotted the Malegaon blast to trigger communal tension and riots in the textile township , the police said . Malegaon police also registered a case over a fake bomb found on September 12 . They have claimed that the mud used in the dummy bomb was similar to the soil found near Shabbir 's battery unit . Investigators have also found traces of RDX in a battery manufacturing unit owned by Shabbir in Malegaon . The police suspect the bombs were manufactured at Shabbir 's battery unit . MUMBAI : The country 's premier anti-terror agency is set to file a chargesheet against four ultra-right Hindu activists for carrying out the 2006 LOC_Event blasts . The National Investigation Agency 's -LRB- NIA -RRB- probe has knocked the bottom off the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad 's -LRB- ATS -RRB- case that members of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- had carried out the attack . The chargesheet is expected to be filed any time this week . The blasts in the textile town on September 8 , 2006 , when people had gathered to observe the Shab-e-Baraat , had killed 37 people and injured 297 . The NIA , which started the probe in April 2011 on the Union home ministry 's orders , has so far arrested four people Dhan Singh , Lokesh Sharma , Manohar Singh and Rajendra Chaudhary for the blasts . Three others , Sandeep Dange , Ramji Kalsangra and Raj Mehul , are wanted in the case . The agency says Chaudhary , Dhan Singh , Manohar Singh and Kalsangra planted the bombs . A senior NIA official in Delhi refused to give more details citing the sensitivity of the case . Sharma , who is also an accused in the Samjhauta Express blast in 2007 , and Chaudhary were members of the Bajrang Dal . ` There can not be two sets of accused in one crime , ' said an NIA officer , adding the agency was examining if there was a larger conspiracy involved . Another officer said the agency might ask the court to dismiss the charges against the nine people arrested by the ATS . All were granted bail in November 2011 . On Friday , the NIA recorded the statement of Mohammed Atif , a prime witness in the case . The ATS had said Atif had witnessed the attackers making the bomb and later hid in the godown of one of the accused . Atif later told a court in his hometown in Uttar Pradesh that he was forced to give the statement . The NIA says the decision to bomb the textile town was taken by senior members of the right-wing Hindu module , including former RSS pracharak Sunil Joshi , who was later murdered allegedly by his own accomplices ; Kalsangra ; and Dange . Kalsangra and Sharma were tasked with the execution , and they asked Chaudhary , Dhan Singh and Manohar Singh to plant the bombs . The agency says the team first recced Malegaon to identify targets . On the day of the blasts , Sharma drove the team to LOC_Event , where Kalsangra gave them the RDX explosive and also clothes to disguise themselves as pious Muslims . Kalsangra accompanied Dhan Singh , Manohar Singh and Chaudhary to place the bombs on bicycles at spots near the LOC_Event at LOC_Event where many people had gathered . Sharma then drove them back to Indore . The ATS led by then joint commissioner K P Raghuvanshi and DIG Subodh Jaiswal filed a chargesheet in the case on December 21 the same year . It had taken just 54 days to file the chargesheet ; usually it can take up to 180 days in such cases . The Central Bureau of Investigation , after its own probe , had endorsed the ATS findings . The NIA , set up in 2009 , post the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks , can deal with terror-related crimes without any special permission from state governments . The agency focused on Hindu right-wing groups after a confession by Swami Aseemanand , arrested in the 2007 Hyderabad Mecca Masjid bomb blast case , it told the court last November . The agency has a Rs 10 lakh reward for Kalsangra and Dange . LOC_Event had seen another attack in 2008 allegedly by right-wing Hindu groups . Sadhvi Pragya Singh and former Lt Col Srikant Purohit were later arrested in connection with that attack . ATS 's claims in 2006 * Blasts were carried out by Muslim youths in an attempt to spark communal riots * The RDX for the bombs came from Pakistan and a Pakistani national , Muzammil , assembled them in Malegaon * A bomb each was planted by accused Noor-ul-Huda , Raees Ali and Abrar Ahmed * Zahid Majeed , an imam from Yavatmal , planted a bomb and returned the same day . -LRB- About 250 Yavatmal residents filed affidavits , saying Majeed was in the town at the time -RRB- * Shabbir Masiullah , a battery shop owner , was part of the conspiracy . -LRB- At the time of the blasts , he was in the custody of the Mumbai crime branch in another case -RRB- NIA claims * The RDX was procured in India . The explosives were allegedly planted by Dhan Singh , Rajender Chaudhary , Ramji Kalsangra and Manohar Singh . Dhan Singh also connected with the Samjhauta Express and 2008 Malegaon blasts * Another Samjhauta blast accused , Lokesh Sharma , provided logistical support * The blasts were plotted by former RSS pracharak Sunil Joshi , Kalsangra , Sandeep Dange , and others . Kalsangra and Sharma tasked with the execution * Chaudhary , Dhan Singh and Manohar Singh recced LOC_Event to identify the targets Legal Angle Prominent criminal lawyer Majeed Memon , who represented several 1993 bomb blast accused in court , said two ideologically diagonally opposite groups can not be responsible for a particular terror attack . Truth can not have two faces . ` The NIA has to necessarily discharge the earlier set of boys in this case , who were wrongly believed to be involved . ' . Special Correspondent . . A diabolic attempt to create communal tensions , says CPI -LRB- M -RRB- . . State Government must uncover motives behind the attack Ensure proper medical treatment for injured Terrorists can not weaken India . . NEW DELHI : Left parties on Saturday condemned the LOC_Event bomb blasts and asked the State Government and security agencies to uncover the motives behind the attack and track down those responsible . . . In a statement , the Polit Bureau of the Communist Party of India -LRB- Marxist -RRB- said the blasts indicated a diabolic attempt to create communal tensions and provoke violence . Coming after the Mumbai train explosions , this attack should be viewed with utmost seriousness . . . `` The State Government and the concerned security agencies must uncover the motives behind this attack and track down those responsible . In this connection , the link with the blasts in Nanded in April this year which killed two Bajrang Dal activists while making bombs and the blasts in mosques in Parbani , Purna and Jalna in recent years must also be investigated , '' the statement said . . . Conveying its sympathy to all those who have lost their family members in these attacks , the Polit Bureau asked the State Government to ensure proper medical treatment for the injured and provide adequate compensation to families of the victims . . . The Polit Bureau called upon its State units to mobilise people against the designs of the extremist and terrorist groups and to foil their attempts to divide the people on communal lines . . . The Communist Party of India too condemned the serial bomb blasts and said if such an attack could take place despite an alert by the Government , the situation demanded more coordinated and effective measures against terrorists . . . In a statement , the party Central Secretariat said the terrorists would not succeed in weakening the country through such cowardly attacks targeting innocent people . `` The people of Maharashtra and India will show the same resilience of Mumbai on resisting the terrorists and maintaining the unity and harmony among the people , '' the statement said . Devesh Pandey . . 2 jumped off the train when it slowed down 30 minutes after its departure from Delhi There was security lapse at the Old Delhi railway station , says police . . LOC_Event : A day after the Samjhauta Express was firebombed , the Haryana police released the sketches of two youths suspected to have planted the bombs in the train . . . While a reward of Rs . 1 lakh has been announced for anyone giving clues leading to the suspects , the police have sought the help of their counterparts in Delhi , Mumbai and Punjab in the investigations . . . At a press meet here on Tuesday , Inspector-General -LRB- Rohtak Range -RRB- Sharad Kumar and Bharti Arora , Superintendent of Police , Government Railway Police , released the sketches based on inputs given by some passengers . Mr. Kumar said one of the suspects was about 35 years old , fat and of wheatish complexion . He had a moustache and wore a jacket . The other one was about 26 years old and had his face covered with a muffler . . . The police believe that more than four persons could be involved in the incident . . . Harish Mohammed -LRB- 15 -RRB- , a resident of Karachi , died of burns in the Safdarjung Hospital in LOC_Event on Tuesday , taking the death toll to 68 . So far , 18 bodies have been identified , including 13 Pakistanis . An injured passenger told the police that soon after the train started moving from Delhi , there was a heated exchange between Railway Protection Force personnel and the suspects . The two said they wanted to go to Ahmedabad and the RPF men told them that they had boarded the wrong train and they should get off when it slowed down . The suspects jumped out after 30 minutes and as the train crossed the Deewana station , the improvised explosive devices in two of the eight unreserved coaches went off at 11.55 p.m. Two other bombs in other coaches did not explode . . . The police displayed a specially-designed metal pipe , bottles containing inflammable liquid , an orange coloured cloth and a suitcase recovered at the site . Mr. Kumar said there were security lapses at the Old Delhi station . So the perpetrators boarded the train with suitcases . . . Samjhauta Express blasts photos . NEW DELHI : Aseemanand , the hardline Hindutva swami , has confessed to his involvement in the terror attack on Hyderabad 's Mecca Masjid , while confirming that bomb attacks on the mosques in LOC_Event -LRB- in 2006 and 2008 -RRB- as well as the Samjhauta Express were carried out by Hindu radicals and he knew about it . What reportedly led to the confession : the swami was cared for in jail by a Muslim , who was wrongly arrested in the Mecca Masjid blast , leading to the act of ` atonement ' . Aseemanand aka Jatin Chatterjee , born Naba Kumar Sarkar , has linked Hindu radicals also to the blast in a minority-dominated locality in Gujarat 's Modasa town . Further , he said RSS leader Indresh Kumar was part of the plan hatched to avenge bomb attacks on temples , but said that militant Gorakhpur MP Yogi Adityanath provided no help to one of the accused . Indresh , Aseemanand claimed , helped enlist members of the saffron terror plot , including Sunil Joshi and Ramchandra Kalsangra , aka Ramji . In a statement before a magistrate under Section 164 CrPC -LRB- admissible in a court of law -RRB- the swami also identified the group of radicals who were part of the ` bomb-for-bomb ' plan . He said the Hindu radicals allegedly attacked mosques and the train carrying Pakistani citizens as part of the ` bomb-for-bomb ' plan to retaliate against jihadi terror . Before making his confession , Aseemanand reportedly told the magistrate that he knew he could be sentenced to death but he still wanted to make the confession because of the arrest of Kaleem , wrongly it now transpires , for the Mecca Masjid blast . Kaleem 's plight motivated Aseemanand to think of ` atonement ' so that innocents do n't suffer . The confession reveals that the network behind saffron terror was far stronger and motivated , and its reach wider than suspected so far . It can not be used as evidence in other cases of alleged saffron terror since they are being investigated by other agencies . But it can help with other probes . Also , it raises serious questions about the course of investigation into the 2006 Malegaon blast , considering that the Maharasthra ATS and CBI have already chargesheeted Muslim accused . According to Aseemanand , the key figures in the Hindutva terror conspiracy are Joshi -LRB- who was allegedly killed by his co-conspirators -RRB- , Sandeep Dange and Kalsangra , both of whom are absconding , and about 10 others who have already been nabbed . Explaining his motivation , Aseemanand told interrogators that he was angry by the attacks on Hindu temples by ` Muslim terrorists ' . ` This caused great concern and anger in me . I used to share my concern about the growing menace of Islamic terorism with Bharat Ritheshwar of Valsad , ' he said . But it was the attack on Varanasi 's Sankatmochan temple which proved to be the last straw for the swami who had so far been known for his forceful opposition to proselytization by Christian missionaries in Gujarat 's tribal Dangs area . Interestingly , Aseemanand told the magistrate who recorded his statement that he decided to confess because of Kaleem , who was his co-inmate in Chanchalguda prison . Kaleem , a mobile phone seller , had to spend one-and-a-half years in jail in connection with the Mecca Masjid blast , a crime which has now been established as the handiwork of Hindutva radicals . He landed up in the same jail , this time for a different offence , at a time when Aseemanand was also lodged there . He took great care of the swami . The gesture moved Aseemanand to such an extent to make him to atone by way of confession so that the ` real culprits can be punished and no innocent has to suffer ' . ` During my interaction with Kaleem , I learnt that he was previously arrested in the Mecca Masjid bomb blast case and he had to spend about one-and-a-half years in prison . During my stay in jail , Kaleem helped me a lot and used to serve me by bringing water , food etc for me . I was very moved by Kaleem 's good conduct and my conscience asked me to do prayaschit -LRB- penance -RRB- by making confessional statement . ' . LOC_Event and Pakistan have initiated steps to ensure the safety and security of the passengers of Samjhauta and Thar Express trains following the February 19 Samjhauta Express blasts . . . The two countries are contemplating introducing an Advance Information Passenger Information Systemwherein both sides exchange information on details ofpassengers travelling on these trains , Railway Ministry sources said . . . While Indian Railways has already started sharing the passenger list of both the trains with the security and immigrant agencies at Attari and Munnabao railway stations , they have asked their Pakistani counterpart to do the same within their territory . . . The two sides have also decided to screen passports of passengers travelling on each side and keep a complete record including their addresses , phone numbers and other details to know who is travelling from where , they said . . . In order to provide adequate security , Samjhauta Express and Thar Express trains have been made fully reserved trains following the blasts on the Samjhauta Express . . . ` With no unreserved coaches , we now have complete passenger details from their ticket reservation data a few hours prior to their boarding , and departure of the train , ' they said adding , the idea was being shared with security agencies at both the border stations . . . In India , the Ministry of Railways has taken several steps to improve security arrangements at important and vulnerable railway stations , which include increase in the number of sniffer dogs in the existing RPF dog squads . . . It has also decided to provide bomb detection and disposal equipment , close circuit televisions , hand held metal detectors , and door frame metal detectors at sensitive railway stations for anti-sabotage checks , they said . . . It is also upgrading training centres to improve quality of training to RPF personnel and Jagjeevan Ram Railway Protection Force Academy , Lucknow , has already been upgraded as a centralised Training Institute . . . It has also launched intensive publicity and public awareness campaign alerting and educating all passengers/public to remain vigilant against any unidentified/unclaimed suspicious objects lying on platforms , other premises or coaches and to report to RPF/GRP/railway officials available nearby . . . It has also enhanced close co-ordination with GRP , state police and central intelligence agencies for regular exchange of intelligence information . . The explosion of bombs in two compartments of the LOC_Event had caused the fire on the train and the death of 68 passengers , a probe by the commissioner of Railway Safety has found . . . A statutory inquiry by the commissioner of Railway Safety , Northern Circle , said the fire was caused by the explosion of bombs kept on the upper racks near the door in two coaches -- GS 03431 and GS 14857 -- of 4001 UP Attari Special , an official release said on Monday . . . The fire had started when the train was at Diwana railway station near Panipat in Haryana , it said . . . The commissioner also suggested several measures to be adopted to tighten security , including indentification of baggage in all trains and review of design of coaches to provide for quick emergency exits in case of fire . . . It also recommended that there should be strict baggage check of the train passengers travelling by 4001 UP at LOC_Event as is done at LOC_Event since the train after starting from Delhi stops only at LOC_Event . . . It also wanted vestibuling of all coaches , as it would be of great help to passengers if they wanted to move to safety in case of fire . Musharraf said the leaders of India and Pakistan had to `` move forward undeterred '' in their efforts to resolve disputes and establish lasting peace . . . Pakistan 's foreign minister said earlier he was going ahead with a trip to India as planned on Tuesday despite the blasts on the LOC_Event . . . `` We will not allow elements which want to sabotage the ongoing peace process to succeed in their nefarious designs , '' Musharraf said in a statement . . . Nuclear-armed India and Pakistan have fought three wars since 1947 and nearly went to war a fourth time in 2002 . . . Relations have improved since they launched a peace process at the beginning of 2004 , although they have yet to make any significant progress in their central dispute over the divided Himalayan region of Kashmir . . . India has blamed previous bomb attacks on Islamist militants linked to Pakistan , casting a pall over peace efforts . . . Officials in India also said the attack on the train at around midnight on Sunday appeared to be an attempt to undermine the peace process . . . Musharraf said the `` heinous crime '' would have the opposite effect . . . `` Such wanton acts of terrorism will only serve to further strengthen our resolve to attain the mutually desired objective of sustainable peace between the two countries , '' he said . . . Pakistani Foreign Minister Khursheed Mehmood Kasuri said his trip to India on Tuesday was still on . . . `` I will be leaving tomorrow for Delhi to further the peace process , '' Kasuri told reporters in the Pakistani capital . . . `` In fact , if at all , we should hasten the peace process . '' . . The train service links New Delhi with the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore , although passengers have to get down at the border and cross on foot before boarding another train for their destination . . . Pakistani Railways Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed said there were 757 passengers on board the train , 553 of them Pakistanis . . . He said Pakistan , for its part , would continue the train service as scheduled on Monday , although security would be stepped up on the Pakistani leg of the journey . . . The Indian High Commission in Islamabad said arrangements had been made to process visas immediately for relatives of people on the train wishing to go to India . A temporary visa office was also being set up in Lahore . On the eve of Foreign Secretary-level talks in Thimphu , LOC_Event on Saturday came out with a provocative statement saying that India 's handling of the LOC_Event bombing case showed that it lacked `` courage to unearth culpability of Hindu extremists '' . It appears that the Pakistanis are not too keen to see any improvement in ties that might lead to resumption of the talks that were stalled following the LOC_Event carnage . Or this might be to check India from making too many demands on the progress or lack of it in the LOC_Event blast trial that is taking place in LOC_Event . But what are the facts on the ground ? . . . . Around midnight on February 18 , 2007 , bombs were set off on the LOC_Event , a twice-a-week service . This happened a day before Mr. Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri was to arrive in India for talks . The incident occurred near LOC_Event in Haryana , 80 km north of Delhi . 68 persons were killed , 42 of them Pakistani civilians , besides some Indian citizens , and army jawans guarding the train . . . . . The case was under investigation with the Haryana police who could not make any headway after their probe led to a tailor in Indore who had prepared the cover of the suitcase in which the bombs were planted . After over three years , the probe was handed over to the National Investigation Agency in the middle of 2010 by the Central government . At that time , there were reports that the Hindu right-wing groups that were involved in the LOC_Event and LOC_Event blasts were also involved in the LOC_Event blast . The Americans had in the meanwhile , in early 2009 , identified a Pakistani , Asif Kasmani , of the Lashkar-e-Taiba , as involved in the LOC_Event blast , and moved the UN to declare him as an international terrorist . Americans generally do not make such claims easily . Did they have some clue , or evidence that the Indian investigators missed ? The investigators had therefore to move carefully and look at unimpeachable evidence to come to any conclusion about the actual perpetrators . . . . . But did India , or the Indian police , lack any courage in unearthing the culpability of extreme Hindu outfits in such terrorist acts ? The Anti-Terrorist Squad of Maharashtra led the way in unearthing the complicity of Hindu right wing groups in the LOC_Event blast of September 2008 , and filed charge sheets against 11 accused , including a serving Army colonel and a Sadhvi , in January 2009 . Their investigations continued even after that ; and the Maharashtra ATS have made more arrests in the case . The harshest sections of law , including the dreaded Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act , were applied against the accused in this case . The Anti-Terrorist Squad of Rajasthan filed a charge sheet against a Hindu right wing group for the LOC_Event blasts in October 2010 . Does this show any lack of courage in dealing under law with the extreme right wing groups ? . . . . The LOC_Event case has also been broken open , this time by the National Investigation Agency , with the arrest of a Hindu God man , and a recording of his confession by a magistrate . The NIA has proclaimed substantial rewards for information that have led to the arrest of three absconding accused . These investigations have compelled the Madhya Pradesh police , where the right wing BJP is in power , to go after the killers of one Sunil Joshi , a Hindu right wing activist , who had allegedly played an active role in all the three blasts and was allegedly killed by his own colleagues as he knew too much . This investigation had been closed as untraced , but was revived in the wake of the arrests made in the blast cases . The National Investigation Agency , the Central Bureau of Investigation and the ATS Units form Maharashtra and Rajasthan have been working closely to break open the blast cases . The investigators have to carefully collect all available evidence to bring the charges successfully against the perpetrators of these crimes . The investigation can not be based solely on confessions , but will also have to look for independent evidence to corroborate material particulars . It is too early to share the result of the LOC_Event case with Pakistan , and the Indian Home Minister is on record that as soon as this becomes possible , India will be happy to share the details with Pakistan . . . . . On the other hand , the trial in the 26/11 case is moving at snails pace in Pakistan . Hafiz Saeed , the main architect of the LOC_Event attacks , is moving freely , and a couple of days back , was threatening war with India if we fail to vacate Kashmir . Our request for voice samples of some of the accused for purpose of comparison in the 26/11 case is still pending . So who is scared of unearthing the culpability of right wing terrorists , India or Pakistan ? . DEWANA , India -- An explosion on a train headed for Pakistan set off a fire that swept through two cars and killed at least 66 people in an attack that a government minister said was aimed at undermining the peace process between India and Pakistan . . . Authorities said two suitcases packed with unexploded crude bombs and bottles of gasoline were found in cars not hit in the attack , leading them to suspect the fire was set off by an identical explosive device . . . `` This is an act of sabotage , '' Railway Minister Laloo Prasad told reporters in Patna , India . `` This is an attempt to derail the improving relationship between India and Pakistan . '' . . India 's junior home Minster , Sriprakash Jaiswal , said the homemade bombs were not powerful , and were simply intended to start a fire on the train , one day before Pakistani Foreign Minister Khursheed Kasuri was to arrive in New Delhi for talks on the ongoing peace process . . . Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam said there were `` all kinds of terrorists '' who may have been behind the attack but said it was too early to speculate about the possible motive . . . `` We expect the Indian authorities to conduct a full investigation and punish those responsible for this heinous act of terrorism , '' she said . . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh expressed anguish and grief at the loss of lives and said that `` the culprits will be caught , '' a brief statement by his office said . . . The fire engulfed two cars of the LOC_Event , one of two train links between India and Pakistan . As on most Indian trains , the windows of many cars are barred . In addition , investigators say at least one of the doors of the two burning carriages was fused shut by the heat of the flames , trapping some passengers inside . . . `` From the less damaged coach , some people were seen jumping out with their bodies on fire , '' Bharti Arora , superintendent of the Haryana state railway police , told reporters . . . The explosion and fire struck just before the train reached the station in the village of Dewana , about 50 miles north of New Delhi . In a stretch of nearly empty countryside , there was almost no one around to help . But townspeople and villagers soon flocked to the scene with buckets to try to put out the fire . . . Frantic relatives flocked to New Delhi 's main railway station Monday morning in search of answers . But there was only a handwritten list , posted on a bulletin board , with the names of 13 injured people and one identified body . . . Mohammed Wasim Khan , who had dropped off his uncle and two young nephews at the station late Sunday , said railway officials had brusquely told him to take a train to the scene of the blast if he wanted more information . . . . Devesh K. Pandey . . The entire recordings are in black and white ; faces of the passengers not in focus . . NEW DELHI : The footage obtained by security agencies from the closed-circuit television cameras installed at Old Delhi railway station has so far not been of much help in investigations into the blasts on board the Samjhauta Express near Panipat on Sunday night . . . As circumstantial evidence indicated that the bombs could have been planted on the train at Old Delhi station , intelligence and police officers have been screening the CCTV footage hoping to get some clues on the perpetrators . But the investigations have been hampered by the fact that the footage does not focus on the faces of passengers . Also , the entire recording is in black and white . . . 20 CCTVs . . There are over 20 CCTVs connected to seven television terminals in the monitoring room . It is learnt that the cameras do have zoom-in facility but the images are not of high-resolution . Hence the cameras at the entrance and the ticket-windows have captured just moving figures . . . The cameras installed inside have also not captured close-up shots of the passengers . The time gap between image-flips of the CCTVs is not beyond 3-4 seconds . . . There is the possibility that the perpetrators could have sneaked into the railway station through other access routes , keeping themselves out of the camera frame . There was no camera on platform No. 18 from where the Samjhauta Express departs . . . A survey of the railway station on Wednesday revealed that anyone could easily access this platform , avoiding all security checks and designated points of access control . A dilapidated gate links the platform to an adjoining car parking lot . Anyone can cross over to the platform as the gate is not manned by anyone . Besides , there is another possible unauthorised entry through Sadar Bazar along the railway tracks that leads to the platform . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : The Delhi police on Wednesday visited the Lajpat Rai Market in the Walled City area and questioned several shopkeepers to find out whether the perpetrators of the Samjhauta Express blasts purchased circuit boards and electronic components used in the improvised explosive devices from there . The market is famous for its cheap electronic goods . . . While the Haryana police believe that two of the perpetrators got off the train when it slowed down about half-an-hour after it departed from the Old Delhi station , it is learnt that intelligence agencies here doubt the theory . ` Terrorists will not travel by the same train in which they have planted bombs unless they are suicide-bombers , ' said an officer . . . According to the officer , there was a possibility that the perpetrators , who could be more than four in number , left the suitcases containing the IEDs in the coaches on platform No. 18 and vanished from the scene before the train departed . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : Although no evidence has so far emerged on the involvement of any particular outfit in the Samjhauta Express blasts , investigations are on to find out if an Uttar Pradesh-based module carried out the blasts . . . The forensic team examining the suitcase containing an unexploded bomb that was recovered from the railway tracks near the blasts site , found a mixture of chemicals wrapped in a piece of newspaper . The torn page of the newspaper dated January 11 , 2006 , belongs to a western LOC_Event edition of a renowned Hindi daily . It carries an article by a news agency about the recovery of 114 live grenades from inside the Golden Temple . . . Initial enquiries have indicated that it could be the Agra or nearby Aligarh edition of the newspaper . . . ` It raises doubts about the role of an outfit like SIMI . However , at the initial stage of investigations we can not concentrate on just one organisation , ' said a police officer . . . A police source said that no arrests had been made in the case so far . . . However , some persons were questioned in Rajasthan , LOC_Event and Delhi in connection with the blasts , the source said . Special Correspondent . . Steps initiated to strengthen RPF , he tells Lok Sabha . . CCTVs , video cameras being installed in sensitive stations More number of sniffer dog squads . . NEW DELHI : Railway Minister Lalu Prasad on Friday announced that a number of measures , including tightening of security at railway stations and modernising the Railway Protection Force -LRB- RPF -RRB- , were being taken in the wake of firebombing of the Samjhauta Express on Sunday , which left 68 people dead . . . Making a suo motu statement in the Lok Sabha , Mr. Prasad said a number of new measures were put in place on Pakistan-bound trains . The Railways had taken steps to strengthen and modernise the RPF , besides increasing the number of sniffer dog squads and explosive detection devices . CCTVs and video cameras were being installed at all sensitive stations . Existing vacancies were being filled to augment the RPF 's strength . . . ` Intensive training is being given to the RPF to enhance its professional competence and efficiency . Steps like having only reserved accommodation in these trains , identification of individual passengers and their luggage before boarding the train and permitting excess baggage in a separate compartment are also being taken . ' . . Probe on . . He said the Bomb Disposal Squad recovered three suitcases from the accident site near LOC_Event and they contained Improvised Explosive Devices , kerosene and petrol . A statutory inquiry by the Commissioner of Railway Safety , Northern Circle , was on . . . Mr. Prasad said he had announced an ex-gratia of Rs . 10 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased and Rs . 50,000 for the injured , which was more than the normally paid amount . . . Compensation up to Rs . 4 lakh would be additionally payable to the affected by the Railway Claims Tribunal as per the extant rules . ' I have also ordered free rail services for relatives travelling for identification of the dead and for transportation of the bodies back . ' . . After the blasts rescue efforts were launched on a warfooting with the help of fire-fighting and medical relief teams of the Railways and local administration , Mr. Prasad said . Amit Baruah . . Seven of the injured sent home by special aircraft on Thursday . . Delay in aircraft 's take was on account of a ` glitch ' : External Affairs Ministry Pakistani version of events do not match Ministry 's statement . . NEW DELHI : India hoped on Friday that Islamabad would facilitate the recording of statements by the 10 injured Pakistanis , being treated at the Safdarjung Hospital till Thursday , in the interest of the investigations into Sunday 's fire-bombing of the Samjhauta Express . . . In a statement , the External Affairs Ministry confirmed that India had requested the Pakistani authorities to allow the interrogation of these persons , seven of whom flew back home by a special aircraft on Thursday . . . ` This request had been made to Pakistani authorities while conveying the clearance for the aircraft , ' the Ministry said , referring to the Pakistani C-130 aircraft , which , after a long tangle , returned to Islamabad on Thursday night . . . Giving an account of the C-130 flight , the Ministry statement said , ` The aircraft which had 14 crew members and a 15-member medical team reached New Delhi at 1505 hrs . Seven of the injured Pakistanis were taken from Safdarjung Hospital in ambulances to Palam Airport . ' . . ` They reached there at 1730 hrs and their boarding was completed by 1800 hrs . However , the aircraft could not take off because it developed a technical glitch . One of its engines developed a problem and had to be repaired by the ground staff of the airport . The aircraft finally took off at 2115 hrs . ' . . The statement cited the remarks of the External Affairs Ministry spokesman , reported in The Hindu on Thursday , that the delay in the aircraft taking off was on account of a ` glitch . ' . . The Pakistani version of the events , as reported in the words of its Foreign Office spokeswoman , of course , does not match either the Ministry 's statement on Friday or the spokesman 's comments to this newspaper on Thursday . . . Referring to the ` media reports ' that the aircraft was delayed because it was waiting for three injured Pakistanis Rana Shoukat Ali , Rukhsana , and their daughter , Aksa the statement said Mr. Ali had expressed a desire to go to Panipat to identify the bodies of his five other children killed in the train blasts . . . ` Pakistan High Commission was informed that these three persons would not be going to Pakistan in the special aircraft . Rana Shaukat Ali and his family were taken to Panipat where they were able to identify all the five bodies of their children . Rana Shaukat Ali and his family will return to Pakistan via Wagah . ' . . The statement said that the attention of the Pakistani authorities was drawn to the fact that the terrorist attack on the train was being investigated by the Indian police who may wish to take their statements at a later date . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : A 35-year-old man detained a couple of days ago at Bikaner in Rajasthan on suspicion of his involvement in the Samjhauta Express blasts was brought to Panipat in Haryana on Friday . . . However , he has not been formally arrested . . . According to the police , Salman was picked up from the house of a railway employee , Taj Mohammad , who vanished from the scene well before they mounted a raid at his residence . . . The police recovered over 20 bottles of kerosene and petrol from the house , following which they questioned Taj 's wife also . . . During interrogation , Salman purportedly disclosed that he belonged to Mumbai and had come to Bikaner about a month ago . . . While Salman is being interrogated by the Haryana police , the Bikaner police have launched a hunt for Taj . . . It is learnt that they have picked up one of his friends , identified as Chandra Shekhar , and are questioning him to know his whereabouts . . . The Delhi police have succeeded in identifying the factory where the suitcases used to plant the bombs were manufactured . Enquiries with the Delhi-based factory 's owner have revealed that the ` cheap quality ' suitcases are supplied to various parts of Uttar Pradesh , Haryana , Punjab , Rajasthan and some other southern destinations . Hence , the police are finding it difficult to zero in on the place from where the perpetrators would have bought the suitcases . The bottles containing the inflammable liquids used in the blasts have been found to have been manufactured in Andhra Pradesh . . . In view of the recovery of a torn piece of newspaper from one of the suitcases containing the unexploded bomb , the police are trying to find out if any Uttar Pradesh-based terrorist module was behind the blasts . Staff Reporter . . Interrogation of detained person in connection with Samjhauta blasts yields no result . . NEW DELHI : The Haryana police have so far not come across any evidence to link the man detained at Bikaner in Rajasthan to the Samjhauta Express blasts near LOC_Event a week ago . They are now questioning over a dozen people picked up on the basis of their resemblance to the sketches of the suspects . . . The police have thoroughly interrogated Salman , who was picked up from the residence of a railway employee at Bikaner and brought to LOC_Event on Friday , but nothing has come of it yet . . . Following the release of sketches of the suspects , the police have received a number of calls from the public . Acting on the tip-offs , they have picked up more than a dozen people , some of who belong to Uttar Pradesh . ` They are being questioned to find out where they were on Sunday night at the time of the blasts , ' said a police officer . . . Few fingerprints . . It is learnt that a forensic team has lifted a few fingerprints from inside one of the suitcases containing the unexploded bomb , which would be matched with those being brought for questioning . . . The police had earlier picked up a Pakistani , Zahid , for questioning . However , he was released on Saturday after verification of his antecedents . . . Zahid told the police that he was to return to Lahore along with his mother and younger brother by the Samjhauta Express on Sunday night , but due to a quarrel with his brother at the old Delhi station , he changed his plans and returned to Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh . . . Meanwhile , efforts of the Special Cell of the Delhi police to find out the place from where the suitcases , used for planting the bombs , had been purchased have not yielded any results . Devesh K. Pandey . . NEW DELHI : While clues have started emerging in the Samjhauta Express blasts , the reward money on the suspects who planted the bombs on the train was increased to Rs . 5 lakh on Sunday . . . The LOC_Event police released modified sketches of the suspects a couple of days ago . . . Investigations by the LOC_Event police indicated that the bombs were configured at a place close to the Old Delhi railway station , before they were planted in the train . Raw materials used in the bomb and suitcases were brought by different people from different ` directions . ' The police believe that about six identical suitcases were brought for the purpose . . . Though the bombs used appear to be of low-intensity , they are ` highly sophisticated ' in terms of the circuitry used . Their triggering mechanism had stand-by arrangements at three levels to make sure that they exploded in any case . On the basis of these facts , the investigating team believes that at least one of those involved at the execution stage had undergone training in bomb configuration . . . Also , the police have found that the ` GEHI PET-1000 ' bottles used to keep a mixture of inflammable liquid in the suitcases are manufactured in Mumbai . Though such bottles are also found in Andhra Pradesh , the police are at present probing the Mumbai angle . . . The electronic watch found from one of the unexploded bombs , which was manufactured in October-December 2006 , is suspected to have been bought from the Lajpat Rai Market here in the Walled City . Marri Ramu . . Outrage during Friday prayers ; four die in police firing . . LOC_Event : A wave of terror shook the State capital , when a powerful blast ripped through a heavy congregation at the historic LOC_Event near Charminar on Friday killing 10 people and leaving over 50 injured . . . Four others were killed in police firing as mobs clashed with the police . Sporadic incidents of arson and attacks continued in many areas till late in the night . . . It was just another Friday and people as well as the police were relaxed . Over 10,000 people were offering prayers at the 400-year-old LOC_Event at 1.15 p.m. when the bomb went off . . . The device , in which RDX was used , was triggered with a cellular phone and the blast sent shockwaves throughout the city . Providentially , two more Improvised Explosive Devices -LRB- IEDs -RRB- were found and defused by the police . Had these been detonated , destruction would have been colossal , as they were strategically placed near a spot where ablutions are performed . The police are pinning their hopes on the SIM card recovered from a mobile phone attached to an IED . . . The bomb went off underneath a thick marble platform -LRB- taqt -RRB- and the 400-year-old stone sheet took the full impact of the blast . It took some moments for those offering prayers to realise that the deafening noise they heard was a bomb blast . . . Soon ambulances began sorties ferrying the injured and the dead to hospitals . As angry youth rushed out of the mosque , sporadic violence erupted and mobs began pelting stones and damaging property . . . The police in riot gear were engaged in pitched battles in the labyrinthine lanes and bylanes of the old city . The police fired shots in the air , lobbed teargas shells to disperse the crowds . Within the mosque , a crowd initially prevented the police from entering . Police then used water cannon to pave the way for the bomb disposal squad , which defused the other bombs . . . Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy cut short his trip in Delhi and rushed to LOC_Event . As news of the blast spread , tension mounted all over the city and business establishments downed the shutters . With mobs targeting the city buses , the authorities suspended all services in the south of the city . . . The method of detonating the IED using a mobile phone is similar to many blasts in Kashmir engineered by the Lashkar and the Jaish-e-Mohammed , police sources said . . . Two MIM legislators and the City Congress president who rushed to the mosque were roughed up . Home Minister K. Jana Reddy and Ministers Mohd . Ali Shabbir and Mukesh Goud were gheraoed and not allowed into the mosque for quite some time . . . State police chief M.A. Basith , who visited the mosque , described the marble platform as a God-sent ` barrier ' as it saved many lives . . . ` There was this deafening sound at 1.15 p.m. and within minutes trouble erupted . A shop and a petrol bunk were targeted by rampaging mobs , ' Mohd . Ismail , who was in front of the mosque , recalled . Ismail said he ran towards the Charminar police station , hardly a stone 's throw away . . . As heavy contingents of para-miliatary and city police moved in , the priority was to ensure that the Dhana Laxmi temple abutting Charminar was not vandalised . Fortunately , the anger against the blast did not take a communal turn and that probably saved the day for LOC_Event . Special Correspondent . . Two defused bombs recovered from LOC_Event shall be able to provide a clue . . Probe into commonalities of Delhi , LOC_Event and Hyderabad blasts Jaish operatives were under pressure to ` do something ' . . New Delhi : Intelligence agencies at the Centre are examining the possible involvement of two terror groups the Jaish-e-Mohammad -LRB- JeM -RRB- and the Harkat ul-Jihad Islami -LRB- HuJI -RRB- in Friday 's bomb blast in Hyderabad 's LOC_Event . The Jaish is based in the Pakistan-controlled territory , while HuJI operates out of Bangladesh . . . According to informed sources , the Central agencies had inputs , dating back to March/April , that the Jaish operatives were under pressure from their handlers across the Line of Control to ` do something . ' Nor were the handlers , according to the sources , averse to planting bombs in mosques . . . The objective was and is to create communal disturbances in the country . . . However , the sources did admit that there was no concrete proof , and any suggestion of Jaish involvement was ` just a conjecture . ' . . The agencies pin their hopes on the Hyderabad police 's input about the possible HuJI involvement . . . The bomb that went off was triggered from a mobile phone ; and , according to reports , the two defused bombs recovered from the LOC_Event should be able to provide a clue . Analysts believe that if confirmed these ` footprints ' should be able to provide the first major breakthrough to anti-terror investigators . . . For now , the Central agencies are probing the commonalities in the Hyderabad blast and the explosions in Delhi 's LOC_Event in 2006 and in LOC_Event in 2006 . Staff Reporter . . Cell phone found in water tank of mosque ; old city returning to normality . . HYDERABAD : Another mobile phone was found on the premises of the LOC_Event , where a powerful bomb went off leaving nine persons dead two days ago , here on Sunday . . . A team of forensic and bomb experts from the National Security Guard , Delhi , unearthed the cell phone from the mosque 's water tank -LRB- houz -RRB- used by namaazis to perform ablutions before offering prayers . The NSG team also recovered electronic keys of a car , used for locking , from the water tank of the LOC_Event . . . The experts conducted a thorough search of the blast site and the LOC_Event from Sunday morning and directed the Masjid officials to empty the water tank . . . The team also found scraps of metal , pieces of wire , a cell phone , a small piece of metal tube , which may or may not have links with the actual bomb that exploded in the LOC_Event on Friday . . . Platform removed . . The team also removed the marble platform , which broke under the impact of the bomb , to conduct a thorough search underneath . They collected shreds of marble pieces , before packing them in polythene bags for investigation . . . The whole water tank was emptied under the strict vigil of the NSG team . Workers from the LOC_Event were told to remove whatever foreign objects they could lay their hands on and hand them over to the team of experts . . . Old rings made up of various metals , visiting cards , metal objects of various shapes and sizes , cellular phone , electronic lock for cars were carefully collected for investigation by the team of experts . . . Meanwhile , the Hyderabad police began analysing if the bomb blast inside the LOC_Event had any similarities to the explosions in Jama Masjid of Delhi and Malegaon in Maharashtra reported last year . Explosions at all the three places were triggered , incidentally , on Friday and inside or close to mosques . . . The old city remained peaceful on Sunday with the police continuing their patrolling all through the day and night . Higher officials continued to camp in the old city and monitored the situation on an hourly basis . Staff Reporter . . Bomb was made using PETN SIM card will be of little use ? . . HYDERABAD : The city police on Monday formed a special team , headed by Joint Commissioner -LRB- Administration -RRB- Harish Kumar Gupta to investigate into the blast at LOC_Event . . . A time limit of 60 days was fixed for completion of the investigation . . . Officials of counter intelligence , cyber crime investigation unit of the CID , a couple of forensic experts and officers of the rank of Inspectors and SIs would assist Mr. Gupta in tracking down the culprits behind the blast . . . The team is probing the case from different angles . Based on the reports of forensic experts that the bomb was made using pentaerythritol tetran -LRB- PETN -RRB- and triggered using alarm facility in mobile phone , investigators are collecting details of earlier incidents in which such improvised explosive devices -LRB- IEDs -RRB- were used . . . Important lead . . The SIM card that was found connected to an unexploded bomb on the mosque premises became another important lead for police . However , they are sceptical of this clue helping them achieve a breakthrough . . . Even ordinary offenders are taking care not to use same mobile phone for long periods for the fear being tracked down . . . ` When they plan to trigger blasts using mobile phones , they must be aware how police track them using SIM cards . They SIM card could be a new one and hence will be of little help in investigation , ' police said . . . Another angle police are focussing on is the possible connection of the LOC_Event blast to the explosions in LOC_Event in Maharashtra and LOC_Event of Delhi last year . . . At all the three places , explosions were triggered either inside the mosques or places close to them . . . Use of IEDs . . It is found that while crude and low-intensity bombs were used in LOC_Event , IEDs were used both in Delhi and Hyderabad . . . Since suspicions centred on involvement of Hyderabadi Shahed alias Bilal , an alleged ISI agent operating from abroad , police are grilling his relatives and family members to ascertain whether he contacted any of them in the recent past . Hyderabad , May 18 : Four of the 13 deaths in Hyderabad today were the result of police firing at rampaging mobs . . . Six rounds were fired in the afternoon and evening to prevent shops and public property from being damaged , including petrol pumps and ATMs . . . One person was killed in the firing in the LOC_Event area , while two fell to the police bullets elsewhere . Another lost his life when the police had to pull the trigger to control a mob trying to break into an ATM . . . According to police commissioner Balwinder Singh , his men resorted to firing after water cannons , tear gas and baton-charge failed to bring the mob fury under control . . . But in a city where wounds of the LOC_Event demolition still fester , the police are forever on their toes . . . Around 35 Muslim youths were put behind bars under Tada and its successor Pota after protests and mob fury in the aftermath of the razing of the mosque . . . The youths were in jail for five years , until the Supreme Court let them off , said K.G. Kannabiran , a civil rights activist and advocate . . . Over the years , Hyderabad has become a recruiting ground for extremists with links to ISI operatives . Suspected ISI agents like Junaid and Lashkar-e-Toibas Azam Ghori were among those felled in encounters here . . . Between 2000 and 2002 , the city , along with the rest of Andhra Pradesh , woke up to a new threat : militants using improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) . These are crude bombs of the sort used in the LOC_Event blasts today . . . IEDs are made of gelatine sticks , dynamite or plastic explosives , stuffed into tiffin boxes . . . One such blast killed three people in the LOC_Event in 2001 . The same year , a blast at LOC_Event killed six persons . A bomb strapped to a scooter outside the LOC_Event in 2003 claimed six lives . Churches have also been under the shadow of such threats . . . A human bomb exploded on Dussehra in October 2005 outside the office of a police unit in Begumpet a stones throw from chief minister Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddys residence . . . As the terror network spread , so did white-collar crime . Hawala operators of the Dawood Ibrahim and Chhota Rajan gangs sprang up . Seven ISI modules were busted in Andhra Pradesh during the tenure of H.J. Dora , the director-general of police in 2002 . . . This was the period when the Hyderabad-Gujarat terror nexus began to take root . . . Gujarat home minister Haren Pandyas alleged killers were from Hyderabad . Moulana Naseeruddin , who heads a religious sect , is still languishing in a jail in Gujarat , along with 20 youths from Hyderabad , for his alleged role in Pandyas 2003 murder . . . A person was killed when Naseeruddins supporters tried to prevent a Gujarat police team from taking the cleric away . As many as 14 persons were killed and over 50 others injured in a bomb blast in the historic LOC_Event and in thesubsequent police firings in the nearby areas on Friday . . . The Majlis-e-Ittehaadul Muslimeen has called for a ` LOC_Event bandh ' to protest against the incident and the police firings . . . ` While nine persons lost their lives in the in the bomb blast , five youth were killed when the police resorted to firing when they came onto the streets to protest the blast at the mosque , ' LOC_Event MP and MIM leader AsaduddinOwaisi told rediff.com . . . The bombexploded around 1:30 pm when thousands of people were gathered in the mosque for Friday prayers , South Zone DCP Kanta Rao said . The injured , some of them bleeding profusely , were rushed to Osmania and other hospitals by the worshippers in whatever modes of transport they could arrange . . . The explosion created such panic that those gathered for the prayers started running towards the exit gate of the mosque , said to be over 400 years old and considered sacred by Muslims in and outside the state . . . ` The situation is peaceful now , though tension prevails . The situation is under control , ' Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Balwinder Singh told media persons . . . The police sounded a red alert and put the forces , including Rapid Action Force contingents , on bandobust to maintain peace and harmony . . . He said that while a powerful bomb exploded in the mosque , resulting in the death of some persons and injuries to several others , the police recovered two unexploded bombs from the vicinity of the mosque . The bomb disposal squad detected the unexploded bombs and sent them to the AP State Forensic Science Labs and the results would be known in a day or two . . . Director-General of Police M A Basith also said that those who exploded the bomb in the mosque had used sophisticated mechanism which was not available in LOC_Event . ` We also recovered two unexploded bombs which are sophisticated and have a trigger . The recovered bombs -LRB- kept in tiffin boxes -RRB- were connected to cell-phones and we have been able to defuse them , ' he said . . . ` We assume that the same sophisticated mechanism would have been used for triggering the bomb that exploded in the mosque . That capacity is not available in LOC_Event so far , ' he said , hinting that it could be the handiwork of elements who came from outside or were supported by forces inimical to LOC_Event . . . ` Some elements bent upon disturbing communal harmony in LOC_Event have resorted to this dastardly act of placing explosive bomb in a place of worship . It went off at the end of the Friday prayers and five people have lost their lives . The bomb was placed on an elevated platform . But it was a God-sent barrier to many people in the vicinity who would have lost their lives , ' he added . . . The bomb blast in LOC_Event sparked off angry protests by hundreds of youth in and around the mosque and LOC_Event . For nearly three hours , a tense situation prevailed in the area as the youth and the police clashed . Groups of youth intermittently indulged in brick-batting at the police , who responded by resorting to lathi-charge , lobbing of teargas shells , use of water cannons and firing in the air . The police also fired at the unruly mobs at two places , resulting in injuries to four persons . . . The mobs who gathered at different places in the Old City forced the closure of the shops and establishments . They attacked RTC buses , breaking their front screens and window panes or setting these vehicles afire . At some places , shops were ransacked and looted . At several places , black flags were hoisted at the road junctions . Sporadic protests were reported from the new city of LOC_Event , LOC_Event and other adjoining areas . . . The Hyderabad City police deployed city armed police , AP Special Police and special commandos even as the Rapid Action Force of the Central Reserve Police Force have been rushed to the affected areas . Police pickets have been posted and patrolling intensified all over the twin cities . . . Chief Minister Dr Y S Rajasekhar Reddy , who strongly condemned the bomb blast , said ` This is an intentional sabotage of the peace and tranquility of the state . ' He announced ex-gratia compensation of Rs 500,000 each to the next of kin of the deceased victims and Rs 20,000 to the seriously injured persons . He said that it was too early to speculate on who could have been behind the attack . He appealed to the people to show restrain and cooperate with the police in maintaining peace and communal harmony . The state administration has alerted police forces all over the state . Superintendents and Commissioners of Police in the districts and major cities have been directed to take all precautions to ensure peace and order . . . State Home Minister K Jana Reddy said the bomb blast at LOC_Event was a ` deep-rooted ' conspiracy to disturb peace in the state . Asked about terrorist angle to the blast , he said : ` We ca n't rule out anything . Investigations are on . He said security has been stepped up in all the districts to maintain law and order in the aftermath of the LOC_Event blast . ' . . Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh has condemned the bomb blast in LOC_Event and urged members of all communities to maintain peace and communal harmony . He expressed his condolences to the relatives of the victims . . . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil said , ` The Central government is keeping a close watch on the situation arising out of the bomb blast in LOC_Event today . It is in constant touch with LOC_Event government . The Rapid Action Force contingent stationed in . . LOC_Event has been placed at the disposal of the State Government . A team of forensic experts has been rushed to LOC_Event to help investigate the nature of the blast . ' . . The Union Home Minister spoke to state chief minister -LRB- who was in Delhi and returned to LOC_Event later -RRB- and assured him of all possible assistance from the Centre . Strongly condemning the blast , he conveyed his sympathies to the kin of those killed . . . ` There was no need for excessive use of force and police firings . The Assistant Commissioner of Police showed highhandedness and reckless behaviour in dealing with the youth who had gathered to protest the bomb blast at the mosque . Police fired directly into the crowds and in a few cases , youth were shot dead at point blank range . Thefiring victims had bullet injuries on their head , face , chest or stomach , ' he said . . . ` Our first demand to the state government is to suspend the ACP , Charminar , immediately . His continuance here will create more problem . Chief MinisterY S Rajasekhar Reddy should order a CBI inquiry into the blast and police firings to assuage the feelings of the people and take them into confidence , ' Owaisi said . . . ` Mere announcement of ex-gratia will not bring the victims back to life . Both the blast and firings show that neither the culprits behind the blast nor the police have any respect for human life . Government must initiate action immediately on our demands . Otherwise , the situation may become difficult as the people are emotionally surcharged . We are doing our best to control the situation and we wo n't allow it to deteriorate . We appeal to the people to observe the bandh in the twin cities of Hyderabad-Secunderabad on Saturday in a peaceful manner and to maintain communal harmony in these trying circumstances , ' he said . . May 19 : The LOC_Event blast has thrown up a Bengal link . . . Andhra Pradesh police today said the SIM cards of the cellphones used as remote-controlled detonators were bought in Calcutta . The subscriber named in the purchase is believed to be the leader of a Bangladesh-based militant group whose cadre move in and out of Bengal at will . . . Three bombs had been planted but only one went off because the SIM cards of the mobiles attached to the other two had expired just a day earlier , a police officer said . . . One bomb exploded when a call was made to one of the phones . But the other two did not take the call because their SIM cards which were prepaid Hutch cards had been de-activated . The SIM cards hold vital clues . . . The police said the SIM cards are in the name of Shaheed Bilal , chief of the Harkat-ul Jehadi Islami , who is also believed to be in charge of the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammeds operations in south India . . . Bilal , believed to be in Saudi Arabia , is a suspect in the Samjhauta Express attack last February and the March 2006 LOC_Event blast . . . The LOC_Event toll was today revised to 16 . Chief minister Y.S Rajasekhar Reddy said 11 died in the blast and five in the police firing on protesters . Reddy apologised to the families of the firing victims . I apologise . The police should have been more patient , he said . . . A mob returning from a victims burial threw stones at the police in todays only violent act , injuring two personnel and prompting the force to fire tear gas shells and shoot in the air . . . Reddy said his government had withdrawn the Rapid Action Force from Mecca Masjid and stopped video-graphing worshippers because Muslims were feeling insulted . . . He said all places of worship with resources should follow the Tirupati model of security , which includes CCTVs . The state cabinet cleared a proposal to appoint volunteers at every shrine to identify suspicious objects another feature of Tirupati . . . An intelligence source said the bombs must have been planted by a local helper of Harkat or Jaish , probably a sympathiser of Deendar Anjuman or the Students Islamic Movement of India . . . Harkat operatives are based mostly in Bangladesh , from where they enter India through the porous North 24-Parganas and Malda borders and carry out strikes , a Bengal intelligence source said . One of them may have bought the SIM cards . . . Industry experts in Calcutta said its possible to track subscriber details such as the calls made , their duration and destination thanks to the unique number on each SIM card . The handsets , thanks to their IMEI number , can also help , a source said . . . But only people above a certain rank , such as the police commissioner and state home secretary , can ask for such information . . . To get a SIM card , a customer must provide photo identity proof ( such as passport or drivers licence ) , proof of address ( such as a phone or electricity bill ) and a passport-size photograph . Physical verification is a must . . . But the telecom department admitted a few months ago that connections were being given without proper verification and had asked operators to do a reverification of subscribers within March 31 this year . . . A Hutch official would only say that the service provider would continue to cooperate with the police . K.V. Prasad . . NEW DELHI : The Union Government has asked the Uttar Pradesh Government to take all steps to maintain peace in LOC_Event , where six persons were injured in serial bomb blasts on Tuesday . . . The Home Ministry was in touch with the State Government . . . Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to the State Director-General of Police and advised that special care be taken to see that peace was maintained in the area and nothing untoward happened in the wake of the blasts , a Ministry spokesman said . . . LOC_Event had witnessed communal clashes earlier this year . LUCKNOW/FAIZABAD : Investigators probing the LOC_Event serial blasts on Wednesday identified the shops from where the three bicycles on which bombs packed into lunch boxes were planted were bought . Experts said it was possible that Tuesday 's blasts were linked to ` low-intensity terrorism ' being carried out by some extremist groups across the country . Principal secretary , home , P Chandramauli , after his return from LOC_Event , told reporters that the bicycles were purchased from different local shops , and added that the explosive used was ammonium nitrate and not RDX . Besides , the explosions were of low intensity as no craters formed at the blast site . DGP G L Sharma told TOI that investigators were also looking into the details of another bomb explosion in LOC_Event in 1992-93 . The bomb that caused the blast at Maneka cinema hall was kept inside a shoe box and was of low intensity . Investigators are now tracing those behind the Maneka blast . Meanwhile , LOC_Event remained normal on Wednesday . ` Though markets were closed in response to trader associations ' call for a bandh , most educational institutions remained open and examinations held as per schedule , ' said Gorakhpur SSP Rajesh Rai . In Lucknow , UP CM Mayawati suspected a political conspiracy behind the LOC_Event blasts . She even blamed Opposition for hatching a plan to unsettle her administration for narrow gains . She told reporters on Wednesday that the Opposition would like to fan communal passions to create trouble in the state . She , however , warned that the state government would not allow this to happen . Hours after the LOC_Event serial blasts , railway police recovered 20 kg of liquid ammonium nitrate and packets containing 10 kg of explosives near the reservation counter of the Faizabad railway station in the early hours on Wednesday . The explosives were to be used for crackers . On the other hand , the six suspicious youths who were nabbed from inside a temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday , have turned out to be local tourists . Lucknow , Dec 29 ( UNI ) A HuJI militant , suspected of being a third conspirator of the November 23 serial blasts which rocked three courts in LOC_Event , was arrested in West Bengal this morning . . . Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force ( STF ) officials today said the West Bengal police , on their tip-off , arrested HuJI militant Mukhtar , alias Raju , suspected to be the third conspirator behind the serial blasts which rocked the LOC_Event district court premises apart apart from the serial bomb blasts in three civil courts of LOC_Event . . . Mukhtar , a native of Malda in West Bengal , is said to be the main conspirator of three blasts on the Varanasi civil court premises in which nine people were killed and more than 40 others wounded . . . Sources said the STF team had already been sent to West Bengal to bring Mukhtar to LOC_Event on transit remand for further interrogation . . . Earlier , Waliullah , the main accused in the LOC_Event 's LOC_Event blast of March 7 , 2006 , had also admitted during his interrogation that Mukhtar had supplied him the explosives used in the 2006 LOC_Event blast . . . Last week , the STF had arrested two terrorists -- Mohammad Tariq and Khalid Mujahid -- from Barabanki railway station who were the conspirators of the May 2007 Gorakhpur blast and the serial blasts of November 23 which rocked the civil court premises in Faizabad , LOC_Event and Lucknow , killing 13 and injuring 70 others . Md Tariq , a practising Unani doctor , and Khalid Mujahid , a madrasa teacher , were involved in the Lucknow and Faizabad blast respectively . Tariq was also the ` intizamia ' ( logistics ) wing head of the HuJI in LOC_Event . . . Meanwhile , police teams from Andhra Pradesh , Rajasthan , Gujarat and Maharashtra interrogated the two HuJI terrorists arrested in LOC_Event last week in connection with the blasts which had torn through various districts of their states in the recent past . . . Early this week , Additional Director General of Police ( Crime/Law and Order/STF ) Brij Lal confirmed that the table alarm clock and the battery used in the LOC_Event blast and the Faizabad civil court blast were of a similar brand . . . The newly set-up Anti-Terrorist Squad of the state police was in touch with the Hyderabad police to track down similarities in the blasts which rocked LOC_Event on August 25 and the civil courts in Faizabad , LOC_Event and Lucknow on November 23 . . . '' The inputs provided by the Hyderabad police suggest that terrorists had used ` Prince ' brand analogue table alarm clock and ` HW ' brand 12 volts battery to trigger the blasts at LOC_Event in Sultan Bazaar area of LOC_Event and the LOC_Event cycle blast , '' he said . Hyderabad Police Commissioner Balwinder Singh had discussed the issue his counterparts in LOC_Event yesterday . . . The ADG claimed that while the timer device used in the Varanasi civil court blast was damaged , the bomb detection and disposal squad ( BDDS ) could not take down details of an unexploded bomb found on the Lucknow civil court premises and later detonated it . '' The timer device was damaged when the bomb was detonated in a secluded spot ... the type of timer device on the other bomb which ripped through the Lucknow court earlier could not be ascertained either , '' he said . . . The bombs were apparently triggered using the alarm mechanism of the table clocks , he added . . . While a cocktail of RDX , charcoal and niterates mixed with oil-based emulsion to prevent seepage of water was used in the LOC_Event cycle blasts , the terrorists had used ` neogil 90 ' and other chemicals to set off blasts in the LOC_Event capital . . . . Gorakhpur , May 24 : Police on Thursday released the sketches of two persons allegedly involved in the serial bomb blasts that rocked the city on Tuesday and announced a reward of Rs 10,000 for information leading to their arrest . . . SSP R K Rai told a press conference here this evening that the two have been identified as Sameer ( 16 ) of Golghar and Iftekhar ( 21 ) of Mayabazar locality here . . . Their sketches have been drawn on the basis of interrogation of a bicycle shop owner , he said . . . The duo purchased the bicycle , which were used in the blasts , from the same shop at 12pm and 4pm on Tuesday , Rai said . . . The SSP said the investigation into the explosions is going on in the ` right direction ' and the police declared a reward of Rs 10,000 for the information leading to the arrest of these two people . . . Meanwhile , police have traced the shop from where cycles used in the Gorakhpur serial blasts were bought and two persons , including the shop owner , are being quizzed for clues . . . ` We have found some clues . The investigation is progressing in the right direction , ' Special Task Force Superintendent of Police P Amitabh Yash said without divulging the details . . . He said the investigators are questioning two persons , including the cycle shop owner . . . Three crude bombs kept in tiffin boxes and tied to cycles went off at five minutes interval after 7 pm in a crowded shopping area of this temple town on Tuesday , injuring five persons . . . The Uttar Pradesh government yesterday ruled out use of the deadly RDX or any timer device in the low-intensity serial blasts in LOC_Event that left six injured . . . Bureau Report . At least three bomb blasts were triggered in the heart of LOC_Event District of LOC_Event around 7.15 p.m. on Tuesday , injuring at least six persons . . . LOC_Event , May 22 : At least three bomb blasts were triggered in the heart of LOC_Event District of LOC_Event around 7.15 p.m. on Tuesday , injuring at least six persons . . . The first blast took place near Baldev Plaza , the second near LOC_Event and the third at LOC_Event . . . According to reports , the bombs were kept inside lunch boxes in scooter and bicycle . . . The injured have been admitted in a nearby hospital . . . Additional District Magistrate P K Agarwal , however , denied any serious injuries . . . Security has been beefed up along the Indo-Nepal border . . . addthis_url = location.href ; addthis_title = document.title ; addthis_pub = ` vijaytech ' ; . . a36 ( ) ; . . . Lucknow , May 23 : Vowing to come down heavily on disruptive elements in the wake of the LOC_Event serial bomb blasts , Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati today blamed the Samajwadi Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party for hatching conspiracy to '' unsettle '' her government . . . '' SP and BJP being in a spot after losing the recent assembly elections in the state are resorting to spreading communal tension to destabilise my newly elected government , '' she told reporters . . . These parties had nothing in their hands and they were indulging in petty tactics to vent their frustration , she said , adding that they were feeling jittery as the Lok Sabha polls were nearing and SP and BJP had already lost ground . . . '' My government has taken the incident very seriously and would ensure that the guilty are booked and such incidents are not repeated during my regime , '' Ms Mayawati said . . . Meanwhile , the Principal Secretary ( Home ) K Chandramauli , the state Director General of Police ( DGP ) G P Sharma , Additional Director General ( ADG ) Shailja Kanat Mishra and ADG ( Law and Order ) Brijlal had been airdashed to Gorakhpur in a special plane to gauge the situation . . . The CM said she had asked these officers to submit their report to her at the earliest . . . . Special Correspondent . . High alert sounded in LOC_Event . . Bombs kept in tiffin boxes Blasts within a span of five minutes . . LUCKNOW : Six persons were injured as three serial bomb blasts rocked Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday . The blasts in a row occurred around 7 p.m. in and around the busy Golghar area of the town . . . The State Government has sounded a high alert . A Home Department spokesman said security around vital installations and religious places was tightened . Vigil along the Indo-Nepal border , about 100 km from Gorakhpur , has been intensified . . . Principal Secretary -LRB- Home -RRB- , K. Chandramouli said the blasts were being investigated . . . Mr. Chandramouli said there was no need for panic as efforts to disturb the peace would not be allowed . . . He said senior police officials , including the Inspector-General , LOC_Event Zone , DIG Range and the SSP rushed to the site of the blasts and the situation was under control . . . The bombs were kept in tiffin boxes attached to two cycles and a motorcycle . The blasts occurred within a span of five minutes , sending the people in the busy commercial area into a panic . . . The first blast occurred at LOC_Event , followed by the one near the LOC_Event -LRB- Water Works -RRB- building in LOC_Event . The third bomb went off near LOC_Event . . . Though no organisation has claimed responsibility for the blasts , investigating agencies have not ruled out the hand of a terrorist outfit , as the blasts took place on a Tuesday in a busy commercial area like LOC_Event , visited by hundreds of people after office hours . . . PTI reports : . . Immediately after the blasts shopkeepers in the locality and other markets downed shutters , even as police sealed all exit points from the city . Special Correspondent . . Additional paramilitary forces sent to LOC_Event . . ` Such incidents will not weaken resolve of the Government : Patil Strategy being worked out to counter recent surge in violence . . NEW DELHI : Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday condemned the bomb blast in LOC_Event in which seven persons were killed and 30 injured . ` Such violent acts only harm the lives of ordinary people , ' he said . . . Expressing his sorrow , the Prime Minister has sent his condolences to the bereaved families . . . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil also condemned the blast , which occurred on the eve of Tarun Gogoi Government 's completion of one year in office . He expressed condolences to the kin of those killed and wished speedy recovery to those injured . . . Mr. Patil said such incidents would not weaken the resolve of the Government to deal strongly with divisive forces in LOC_Event and other North-Eastern States . . . Highly-placed Home Ministry sources said that a strategy to counter the recent surge in violence , sponsored by the outlawed United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- , was being worked out by the Ministry in consultation with the Assam Government . . . The Home Ministry also made available additional paramilitary forces in LOC_Event to tighten security in LOC_Event and help maintain law and order in the aftermath of the blast . The Home Ministry directed the State Government to remain vigilant and ensure that peace was maintained , a Ministry spokesman said . . . Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to the State Chief Secretary to take stock of the situation . The Special Secretary -LRB- Internal Security -RRB- also spoke to the State police chief . . . Increase in violence . . Home Ministry 's figures show an increase in ULFA-sponsored violence in LOC_Event in recent months with the militants resorting to kidnapping , extortion and blasts after the failure of the peace initiative . Officials said that till March 31 this year , there have been 156 incidents in LOC_Event compared to 85 during the same period last year . . . Likewise , 99 civilians were killed during the first three months this year as against 31 during the corresponding period of 2006 . . . Ministry sources said that ULFA , with which the Government declared a month-long ceasefire last year but called it off following the outfit 's refusal to come to the negotiating table , accounted for over 50 per cent of the violent incidents last year . Additional para-military forces were rushed to LOC_Event after seven people were killed and 20 others injured in a powerful bomb explosion set off by the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) in Guwahatis LOC_Event area yesterday . . . New Delhi/Guwahati , May 27 : Additional para-military forces were rushed to LOC_Event after seven people were killed and 20 others injured in a powerful bomb explosion set off by the United Liberation Front of Asom ( ULFA ) in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event area yesterday . . . Home Minister Shivraj Patil has strongly condemned the blast , and has directed the state government to remain vigilant and ensure that peace is maintained . . . He said that such incidents would not succeed in weakening the resolve of the government to deal strongly with divisive forces in LOC_Event and other north eastern states . . . The explosion occurred around 10.45 a.m. . The bomb was hidden in a autorickshaw parked near the Marwari Maternity Hospital . . . The intensity of the blast was so high that vehicles parked nearby were destroyed and the windowpanes of a three-storyed building located nearby were broken . . . Meanwhile , at least two suspected ULFA militants were shot dead by the security forces . . . On May 21 , at least 13 people were injured in a blast . . . On May 18 , five persons were injured in a blast in LOC_Event . . . Earlier on May 14 , two persons were killed and eight others injured by a bomb blast that followed ethnic clashes in eastern LOC_Event the day before . . . addthis_url = location.href ; addthis_title = document.title ; addthis_pub = ` vijaytech ' ; . . a36 ( ) ; . . . LOC_Event : Ulfa turned party-poopers for Assam 's Tarun Gogoi government , celebrating its one year in office , when a powerful explosion at LOC_Event area in LOC_Event killed six persons and wounded over 30 on Saturday . This is the seventh blast in Guwahati and third at Aathgaon , inhabited mostly by non-Assamese , in this month . The explosion which took place around 10.30 am on LOC_Event killed three persons on the spot . Another three died on their way to hospital . The blast spot was a few metres away from Marwari Maternity Hospital and four popular schools . At least 25 injured were first admitted to Marwari Hospital but later shifted to Guwahati Medical College and Hospital . Five of the dead have been identified as Partha Saha , Nirmal Dey , M Ali Dhubri , Nareshwor Deka and Mohammad Anowar Hussain , who was from Bihar . Assam IGP -LRB- law and order -RRB- D K Pathak said a powerful improvised explosive device -LRB- IED -RRB- was planted on an autorickshaw . ` When the bomb went off , it triggered a chain reaction and an LPG cylinder in a rickshaw coming from the opposite direction exploded . This enhanced the intensity of the blast , ' he said . Shivendu Kumar Dey , a resident , said he heard a loud bang and immediately saw smoke billowing out from the spot . Three autorickshaws , two four-wheelers and three cycle-rickshaws were damaged . Splinters were found on walls of adjacent houses . ` It took place in front of our house . I saw a blood-stained body hit the front gate and a severed hand flew into our living room , ' he said . Sarat Chandra Rana , a survivor , said he and his son were in their car when they heard the explosion . ` We took the road to avoid traffic . I slammed the brakes as soon as it happened . ' Though his car was extensively damaged , they escaped with just a few bruises and cuts . Residents of Fancy Bazar and Aathgaon two commercial areas took to streets in protest against the Ulfa-orchestrated violence . They shouted slogans and warned the banned outfit . They sought adequate protection from the government , which has so long been unsuccessful in taming Ulfa bombers in the city . PATNA : CM Nitish Kumar has condemned the bomb blast triggered by the Ulfa in Guwahati , in which seven Hindi speaking people were killed , and demanded a determined and strong action against the separatist outfit . ' I condemn the blast by the Ulfa which has led to the loss of seven precious lives . The Assam government should take determined and strong action against the separatist outfit which are regularly targetting Hindi-speaking people in the north eastern state , ' Nitish said in a statement . He also demanded adequate security for the Hindi-speaking people , including Biharis , who have significant presence in some pockets of the state and were contributing to its development . Seven persons were killed and 30 wounded when Ulfa militants set off a bomb in Athgaon area of Assam . Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi , while expressing his shock and profound grief over the killing , demanded immediate Central intervention there . Modi said such a gory incident took place as the state government failed to take preventive action promptly after ULFA issued a threat of a major bomb explosion in Guwahati three days before the incident . He said ULFA chief Paresh Barua had announced awards for killing Hindi speaking people from Dhaka Jail which , too , was not taken up seriously by the Assam government . Modi alleged that Congress had a soft corner for ULFA as the ultra outfit had supported the party during the last elections . He said Biharis living in Assam since long have assimilated themselves with the Assamese society hence they be provided adequate security . City Bureau . . Weekend crowds targeted ; tension mounts in the Andhra Pradesh capital ; HuJI hand suspected . . HYDERABAD : Two explosions within minutes , one at an amusement park in front of the State Secretariat and another at a popular eatery in the busy LOC_Event area , left at least 39 people dead and more than 50 injured in the city on Saturday . Another unexploded bomb was found in the Dilsukhnagar locality late in the night . . . Tension escalated in the capital , as the injured were rushed to hospitals in ambulances , city buses and cars . The 10,000-strong city police were ordered out on the streets to check any violent backlash . Till late in the night , no untoward incidents were reported . . . Explosions rocked LOC_Event Park , abutting the LOC_Event lake and in front of the Secretariat main gate , and at LOC_Event , a popular eatery in the busy LOC_Event area in central Hyderabad , hours after the city police arrested four persons , including a Dubai national , and seized counterfeit currency of Rs 2.36 crore in the old city . . . A group of 45 students from the Amritavahini engineering college in Sangamera town , Maharashtra , on a sight-seeing trip to Hyderabad , took the brunt of the massive explosion at LOC_Event park . Seven persons died and 11 were injured . The injured were shifted to the nearby Mediciti and Yashoda hospitals . The scene at the site was gruesome , with lumps of flesh strewn around . . . At LOC_Event , one of the busiest junctions of the capital , there was a large gathering at Gokul Chat when the blast took place . The casualities here were more 27 dead and scores injured as the blast took place inside the building . Dazed passersby rushed into the building minutes after the blast and dragged the injured out . With no ambulances available , they stopped a city bus and loaded all the injured into it and rushed them to the Osmania General Hospital . I rushed inside . There was lot of smoke and could see many injured people a visibly shocked man recalled . . . Though no terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the blasts , suspicion centered on the Harkat-ul Jehadi Islami -LRB- HuJI -RRB- . Forensic experts who visited the site said the slurry explosive with metal balls was packed in containers and detonated with a timer . Both the blasts took place around 7.46 p.m. Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy , who rushed to the blasts sites , said it was a terrorist act and declared his governments resolve to bring those responsible to justice . . . Just about three months ago , a powerful explosion ripped through a massive congregation at the LOC_Event near Charminar , killing nine persons . In the violence that followed , five persons were killed in police firing . The May 18 blasts as well as Saturday explosions did not lead to a communal conflagration , as the perpertrators would have hoped for . . . Manmohan , Sonia condemn blasts . . New Delhi Special Correspondent reports : . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , United Progressive Alliance chairperson Sonia Gandhi , Home Minister Shivraj Patil and Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee have condemned the Hyderabad blasts . . . Dr. Singh expressed deep concern over the welfare of those affected . Mr. Patil said all-out efforts would be made to bring the perpetrators of the ghastly crime to justice . Mr. Chatterjee expressed deep sorrow over the loss of lives of innocent people . All leaders offered condolences to the families of those killed . . . Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta said the Ministry was closely monitoring the situation in Hyderabad in the wake of the blasts . All assistance would be provided to the State government to tackle the situation . Mr. Gupta spoke to the Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary and said that all aspects of the blasts were being probed . . . Intelligence sources believe the blasts could be the handiwork of terrorist groups ; the needle of suspicion in the LOC_Event blast on May 18 pointed to the involvement of cadres of the Harkat-ul-Jehad-i-Islami and sleeper cells of the Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit . The timing , venue and high intensity of the blasts indicated that a powerful explosive could have been used . PUNE : Bodies of five students of Amrutvahini Engineering College , Sangamner , who were killed in the LOC_Event bomb blasts on Saturday evening , arrived at the Pune airport on Sunday afternoon.A large crowd and a fleet of ambulances were at the airport as the bodies were brought out of the cargo hold of the aircraft . Sub-divisional officer of Sangamner Bhanudas Palve told reporters that 45 students and four teachers of Amrutvahini Engineering College had gone to LOC_Event on an industrial study tour . On Saturday , the group was enjoying a laser show at Lumbini Park when the blast took place . ` Seven students were killed while 11 were injured in the explosion . Of the injured , two are in critical condition , ' said Palve . doweshowbellyad = 0 ; . . People mill around at the site of a blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event . Forty people are feared dead in the twin blasts -LRB- AFP Photo -RRB- . . LOC_Event : The killing just does n't stop . At least 40 people were killed and scores injured in two powerful blasts in LOC_Event , one at an amusement park packed with weekend holidayers and another at a landmark eatery in the heart of the city on Saturday evening exactly four years after twin blasts at Mumbai 's Gateway and LOC_Event killed 53 . The first blast happened at 7.40 pm in LOC_Event , LOC_Event 's biggest laser show arena , a stone 's throw from the Andhra Pradesh Secretariat and flanking Hussainsagar lake . The second took place some 30 minutes later in LOC_Event at LOC_Event in LOC_Event neighbourhood in the communally sensitive old city . Police said bombs at both places seemed to have timer devices but some sources said the LOC_Event blast could have been executed by a suicide bomber.Reports of unexploded bombs being discovered in a movie theatre in LOC_Event and in LOC_Event suggested that the attacks - similar to the Mecca Masjid blasts in LOC_Event that killed 16 people this May - were well-planned serial attacks aimed at causing maximum casualties among citizens chilling out over the weekend.The Mecca Masjid attacks were planned and executed by Bangladesh-based terror group Harkat-ul Jihad Islami -LRB- Huji -RRB- . Early indications suggest similar explosives were used on Saturday . The LOC_Event blast ripped out four rows of seats from its moorings and blew out parts of the concrete base to smithereens , leaving mangled bodies everywhere . There were some tell-tale marks of RDX being used and the bombs had been packed in plastic containers with steel balls used in bicycle wheel hubs , which acted as shrapnel.Intelligence agency sources said the attacks could be the handiwork of Shahid Ilyas Bilal , who 's also linked to the Mecca Masjid attacks . He 's a high-ranking Lashkar-e-Taiba operative who has lately been working with HuJi . Intelligence agencies monitoring his activities have recently observed him flitting in and out of jehadi chat rooms . There is a new pattern of militant groups pooling resources for bigger strikes , so a combined operation is not being ruled out.Such vicious attacks prove that cities like LOC_Event and Bangalore , emerging icons of a vibrant nation , are firmly in the cross-hairs of terror groups which have made LOC_Event a country with perhaps the highest number of civilian victims of terror -LRB- leaving aside war-torn countries like Iraq -RRB- . doweshowbellyad = 0 ; . . Relatives of the bomb blast victims at Osmania General Hospital in Hyderabad . -LRB- PTI Photo -RRB- . . HYDERABAD : At least 42 people , including five women and seven students , have been killed and 50 injured in two explosions at a crowded park and a popular eatery in Hyderabad on Saturday evening , three months after the Mecca Masjid blasts . The week-end outing at the popular LOC_Event shop at Kothi locality turned into a tragedy when a deafening explosion ripped through it killing 32 people and wounding 21 , police said on Sunday . Five minutes earlier , 10 people , most of them from outside the state , were killed and 29 injured in another blast in an open air auditorium in Lumbini Park near the state secretariat in the heart of the city when a laser show was underway , they said . The blast at the auditorium , where 500 people were present , was so powerful that some bodies were flung in the air . Among the dead at the Lumbini Park were two students from Ahmedabad . Four Railways employee are among those killed in the blasts . The condition of some of the injured was stated to be serious , police said . Hours after the twin blasts , the city police recovered a live bomb from Dilsukhnagar area and defused it in time , averting another tragedy . The bomb was planted underneath a foot-over-bridge with a timer set for 9.30 pm , police sources said . The near-simultaneous blasts at Lumbini Park and Gokul Chat Bhandar were triggered by cell-phone timers , city Police Commissioner Balwinder Singh said . K. Srinivas Reddy . . It was too vague : police top brass . . Alert based on telephone surveillance . . No wherewithal to track web-based communication . . LOC_Event : Why did the Andhra Pradesh police ignore the specific alert by the Intelligence Bureau about the possibility of a terror strike in LOC_Event ? . . The immediate answer from the police top brass to this disturbing query is that the IB alert to the State police intelligence wing was too vague and not apparently considered an actionable intelligence input . . . The alert , according to reliable sources , was based on telephone surveillance of suspects and had warned that the ISI-backed fundamentalist modules could take up some sensational terrorist acts in Mumbai , Bangalore and/or LOC_Event . The alert had also indicated that the modules were waiting for two or three people to come from Bangladesh -LSB- for organising blasts -RSB- . . . Such alerts are brought to the notice of the top brass of the city and state police and especially the Counter Intelligence -LRB- CI -RRB- cell which monitors the terrorist activities . What follow-up action could have been initiated over such a vague alert is the question now doing the rounds , even as a political storm continues to rage over the IB alert being neglected by the LOC_Event police . . . Knowledgeable sources privy to the back-end operations say that some proactive action should have been there considering that such an alert had come just two months after the bomb blast in Mecca Masjid which killed nine persons and five more in the consequent police firing in the old city to quell riotous mobs . . . Actionable angle . . The follow-up could have been getting back to the IB posing questions on what the actionable angle was in the alert . Senior police officers recall that there were many instances when the State intelligence officials got back to the IB seeking more information on the actionable angle and following it up with patience , many a time leading to success . . . Remarkable work . . The much-criticised Counter Intelligence -LRB- CI -RRB- cell had indeed turned out some remarkable work in recent times , the latest being the busting of an international counterfeit currency racket leading to the seizure of Pakistani-printed Indian currency worth Rs . 2.36 crore and the arrest of four persons including a Dubai national on the same day when the twin bombs exploded in LOC_Event . . . However , officials concede that the competency of the CI cell would depend on many parameters . When the fundamentalist organisations were increasingly depending on the Internet , while discarding mobile telephones for communication , the intelligence wing does not have the wherewithal to track web-based communication . Compounding this , maintaining physical surveillance on suspects has almost been given up for a variety of reasons . . . Three factors . . Then why this marked disinterest in the alert about the possibility of a terror strike ? Police officials attribute this to three major factors . Firstly , a general disinterest among the police , especially those involved in counter intelligence work following a soft stand adopted by the government towards fundamentalists for political reasons ; insensitivity and ignorance of the police top brass towards the nature of counter intelligence work ; and the general tendency of the police department to ignore the security needs of officers who have been exposed to threats from the modules . . . With such a perception strengthening , officers take things easy and the result is there for everyone to see , a senior police officer says . Another top officer recalls a particular episode when Hyderabad police took into custody Ibrahim , on suspicion that he had been trained in Pakistan . He was booked in a petty case in Gopalapuram police station , after a perfunctory questioning session . . . Role comes to light . . But after the suicide bomb attack on the task force office near the Chief Ministers residence in 2005 , Ibrahims role in it came to light in Delhi , when police arrested an ISI agent Nafeeq . This subversive agent told the Delhi police about Ibrahim and another Bangladeshi Kaleem having gone to Pakistan for training . . . Confession . . During a closer interrogation of Ibrahim subsequently , he confessed that he knew about Kaleem being enlisted for some sensational action in LOC_Event . And he turned out to be the suicide bomber . If only Ibrahim had been interrogated properly , the suicide bombing could have been averted , an officer , on condition of anonymity , says . Mohammed Iqbal and Praveen Swami . . Shrine venerated by Hindus , Muslims and Christians across northern India . . JAIPUR/NEW DELHI : Two people were killed and 17 injured on Thursday when a bomb ripped through the LOC_Event in Ajmer , a shrine in Rajasthan venerated by Hindus , Muslims and Christians across northern India . . . Officials said the bomb went off at 6.12 p.m. , near the Ahata-e-Noor , a courtyard located some 20 metres from the saints mausoleum . Some 5,000 devotees are estimated to have been present inside the shrine complex at the time of the bombing , which took place soon after Iftar the time when the day-long fast observed during the month of Ramzan is broken . . . A PTI report said one of the persons killed was identified as 45-year-old Mohd . Shoaib from Mumbai , who had come to offer prayers . . . Panic gripped the shrine and the neighbourhood after the deafening explosion . People seeking to escape the area rushed into the narrow alleyways surrounding it , while shopkeepers downed the shutters hurriedly . Police , who reached the site immediately , cordoned off the entire area , thus preventing a stampede which could have claimed more lives . . . Amid the commotion , a crowd of angry devotees attacked policemen at the Dargah Bazaar . The situation was immediately brought under control and the district administration appealed to the people to maintain calm . Ajmer Divisional Commissioner DeepakUpreti said extra forces had been rushed to the pilgrim city to ensure that prayers at the shrine could be restored as early as possible . . . Intelligence sources in New Delhi said that the device used to execute the bombing was fabricated by packing a low-intensity explosive and metal fragments inside a metal lunch-box . Fragments of a mobile phone were also recovered from the site , but forensic experts were unable to immediately determine if it or a clock-based timing device was used to trigger the explosion . No group has claimed responsibility for the terror strike , which comes on the eve of Jumat AlVida last Friday of the month of Ramzan , which is marked by special prayers . . . Officials , however , noted that the Ajmer attack was the most recent in a string of attacks on Muslim religious institutions and civilian targets since 2006 , for several of which members of the Lashkar-e-Taiba have been alleged to be responsible . . . Earlier warning . . Speaking at a conference of Directors-General of Police from across India , Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil had last week warned that terror groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba would strike religious institutions in an effort to provoke communal conflict . However , Intelligence Bureau sources said , there had been no specific warnings that a strike on Ajmer or any other shrine was imminent . . . Attack condemned . . Muslim social groups here condemned the attack inside the dargah , which they said was intended to disturb communal harmony in Rajasthan . Jamat-e-Islami Hind State president Mohammed Salim said the elements choosing soft targets like the dargah should be identified by a thorough probe and their plans exposed . A delegation led by All India Congress Committee general secretary Harendra Mirdha , left for Ajmer to meet the injured and visit the dargah . . . New Delhi Special Correspondent writes : . . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil has condemned the blast at the LOC_Event , saying that condemnable designs of elements inimical to the country to cause communal discord should not be allowed to succeed . . . Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta said the Ministry was in constant touch with the State government . View PhotosNew Delhi/Jaipur , Feb 7 : Bharat Rateshwar , alias Bharat Bhai is believed to be a common link of LOC_Event blast , Delhi LOC_Event blast and LOC_Event blast . . . Rajasthan Anti Terrorist Squad ( ATS ) on Feb 4 arrested Bharat Bhai who has been accused of financing all blasts as sources reported that he allegedly handed over Rs 70,000 , Rs 50,000 and Rs 40,000 Sunil Joshi , the slained RSS worker for carrying out the blasts at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . LOC_Event blast accused now officially detained . . The slained RSS worker Joshi is believed to have played a prime role in all blasts . . . Bharat Bhai has also been accused of conspiracy and participating in the execution of the LOC_Event blast . . . Bharat Bhai is likely to be named as the prime accused in all blast cases , ATS officials informed . . . He will be questioned over purchase mobile phones , SIM cards and material for improvised explosive devices , sources informed . . . Bharat Bhai , as sources claimed , came in the ATS ' net when the investigating agency found that Joshi made a call to him ( Bharat Bhai ) 15 minutes after the Ajmer blast to say the work had been executed . . . Joshi also asked him to watch the news on television and inform Aseemanand about it , since he was not able to reach him over the phone , sources informed . . . On the other side , A chief judicial magistrate on Saturday , Feb 5 extended Aseemanand 's custody along with that of Bharat Bhai . . . OneIndia News . . . New Delhi : The 2007 LOC_Event blast accused Bhavesh Patel has sent a letter to National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) special court saying Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde forced him to implicate Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh ( RSS ) chief Mohan Bhagwat and senior leader Indresh Kumar in the terror strike . CNN-IBN has accessed the letter written by Patel in which he has also blamed some other senior Congress ministers and leaders for trying to frame Bhagwat . . . Even as the NIA rubbished the allegations , sources say that Bhavesh Patel has also reportedly named others such as Digvijaya Singh , Minister of State for Home RPN Singh and Coal Minister Sri Prakash Jaiswal . . . NIA sources , however , say that Bhavesh Patel was asked repeatedly by the court if he is being pressured . Patel , according to the NIA sources , had said he was not being pressured . . . Sources have also refuted the charges on the grounds that since Indresh Kumar had not been named in the FIR there is no question of anyone putting pressure on Patel into naming him . . . Both Digvijaya Singh and RPN Singh dismissed Patel 's allegations . `` I do not know Bhavesh Patel . He has accepted that he was a member of RSS and that he played a part in the LOC_Event blasts . Need to investigate who asked him to write the letter , '' said Digvijaya . . . `` I deny this totally . Allegations are baseless . I was not even MoS ( Home ) then . It 's been 11 months since I took charge , '' said RPN Singh . . . Claiming that Patel 's letter is strong evidence , RSS leader Ram Madhav said , `` We have been saying from the beginning that there is a conspiracy against Hindu organisations , specifically against the RSS and its leaders . We are calling for an unbiased probe . '' . . Meanwhile , the NIA court in LOC_Event framed murder charges on Tuesday against seven persons , including key accused Aseemanand , in the 2007 LOC_Event blast case . . . Devendra Gupta , Lokesh Sharma , Chandrashekher Leve , Bharat Mohan Rateshwar , Jarshad Bhjai and Mukesh Wasani have also been charged under sections 302 ( murder ) and 307 ( attempt to murder ) of IPC . . . They have also been booked under the Explosives Act for causing an explosion at the LOC_Event to create terror and under the Unlawful Activities Act for causing communal disharmony and waging war against the State . . . The two FIRs were initially registered at LOC_Event in 2007 and subsequently the investigation was transferred to NIA in 2011 . The court framed charges based on the NIA charge sheet . . . Three persons were killed and 20 injured in the blasts in October 2007 . . . . LOC_Event , ( IANS ) As the Punjab police , security agencies and forensic experts Monday tried to gather shreds of evidence about those behind the powerful blast in a cinema hall in Ludhiana Sunday , it has become clear that those targeted were migrant labourers and workers from Uttar Pradesh , Bihar and other states . . . Six people were killed and nearly 30 injured when a bomb went off in the front rows of the LOC_Event . A Bhojpuri film - `` Janam Janam Ke Saath '' - was being screened at the time and the movie had restarted after the interval . . . All those killed and the majority of the injured were migrant labourers who had settled in this city - one of the biggest industrial cities in Asia - for work . . . Those behind the blasts carefully targeted the theatre that was regularly showing Bhojpuri films for the migrant population . Being the festival of Eid and a Sunday , there was a huge rush at the theatre . . . One third of the 3.5 million residents of LOC_Event and its nearby areas are migrant workers . . . Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said that terrorism would not be allowed to raise its head in Punjab again . . . `` We will ensure greater security and also bring the perpetrators of this crime to book . We will ensure full security of migrants in the state , '' Badal said here Monday . . . Punjab police officials investigating the blast said they were working on all theories , including a possible link to Kashmiri terrorist outfits and Babbar Khalsa International ( BKI ) - a Khalistani terrorist organisation . . . `` A forensic team from the National Security Guards has also arrived . We are working on various theories , '' said Jalandhar range inspector general Sanjiv Kalra . . . Reacting to the LOC_Event blast , former Punjab supercop K.P.S. Gill pointed out : `` Cells of the Babbar Khalsa international are trying to re-activate in Punjab . They still have their links in Pakistan and also with other terrorist outfits . The LOC_Event blast here came within hours of the bomb blast at the LOC_Event of Ajmer in Rajasthan Friday . '' . . The LOC_Event and two smaller theatres , which comprise the LOC_Event , were evacuated Sunday evening after the blast to search for any other explosives . . . Security officials admitted that they had no intelligence that Punjab could be a target of terrorists , though Punjab 's director general of police N.P.S. Aulakh said : `` We had issued an alert for the festival season '' . . . The state was put on red alert after Sunday 's blast . . . Punjab-based terrorist groups like BKI did figure in the twin bomb blasts in LOC_Event in Delhi in 2005 . There have been reports occasionally with security agencies here that terrorists groups had made several attempts to re-group and re-active their cells in Punjab . The Punjab Police seized over six kilograms of RDX in January this year near Jalandhar . . . The Punjab Police is now probing all angles to the blast at LOC_Event , including the recent conviction and awarding of death penalty to Babbar Khalsa terrorist Jagtar Singh Hawara and others in the Beant Singh assassination case by a court in Chandigarh . Barely three days after a blast at the LOC_Event , a powerful explosion rocked a cinema hall in LOC_Event on Sunday night - after peaceful Id festivities throughout the country - killing at least seven persons and injuring about 40 . A 10-year-old child was among those killed . . . Eyewitnesses however claimed there were two blasts in close succession , around 8.30 pm , just after the interval . . . The victims were mainly migrants from other states who were watching a 7 pm show of Bhojpuri film Janam Janam Ka Saath at LOC_Event . There are two more cinema halls in the building . . . The condition of 23 of those injured , admitted to CMC Hospital , was stated to be serious . . . Ludhiana Range DIG Ishwar Singh said the bomb appeared to have been placed in the first three rows of seats . `` At the moment it can not be said if it was RDX or something else , '' he added . The blast site was splattered with blood and body parts and a huge crater marked the spot . . . The Union Home Ministry reacted with caution , saying it needed more information before concluding if this was a terror strike . `` We are monitoring the situation and waiting for more details , '' a spokesperson said . . . What is worrying the security and intelligence machinery is not just that the blast closely follows the LOC_Event explosion but that if it were a terror attack , it would be the first such strike in Punjab in a long time and the very first for Ludhiana , the industrial city that also houses a large number of migrant workers . . . Investigators will also have to determine whether the blast is the handiwork of Islamist terror groups or if a dormant Punjab militant organisation has become active again . . . Former Punjab Director General of Police K P S Gill maintained that planting of explosive devices in a cinema hall meant that it was most likely a terror strike and his suspicions would go to the Babbar Khalsa International or the Khalistan Zindabad Force . . . ... contd . LOC_Event : The Punjab police on Sunday claimed to have solved the LOC_Event cinema blast case with the arrest of four suspected activists of Babbar Khalsa International -LRB- BKI -RRB- . Announcing the arrest of the four -- Gurpreet alias Khalsa , Palwinder Singh , Sandeep Singh alias Harry and Ravinder alias Rinku - DGP N S Aulakh said the motive behind the October 14 blast , which killed six people and injured 37 , was to revive terrorism and to create communal tension . Aulakh said some prominent religious leaders like Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmit Ram Rahim Singh were on the hit list of the BKI operatives . The police recovered 5.10 kg of RDX , 3 detonators and two pistols from the suspected BKI terrorists . With these arrests , the number of people held by the police in the case has gone up to 11 . The DGP said the police were looking for another BKI activist , Harminder Singh , who they believe was involved in the blast . The police said the group had come together in 2005 and 2006 . ` Gurpreet along with Harminder Singh went to Pakistan with a Sikh Jatha where they got training for making bombs from BKI . Once they came back , the duo started training youths , ' Ludhiana SSP R K Jaiswal said . He said Gurpreet also made a trip to Malaysia after returning from Pakistan , but came back soon and started living near Mohali , where Sandeep and Bhagwan Singh Sandhu -- who are now in police custody -- arranged a hideout for him . The group received a consignment of approximately 24 kg of RDX , detonators along with batteries and other devices for assembling improvised explosive devices , from across the border and collected it from Bikaner , Rajasthan , in the last week of July , police said . On the day of the blast , Gurpreet , Sandeep , Harminder and Rinku arrived at the cinema in an autorickshaw driven by Rinku . While Sandeep and Gurpreet kept sitting in the auto , Rinku and Harminder went in and bought tickets for the film . Rinku went inside the hall and planted the bomb . He kept sitting in the hall till the interval , but as soon as the interval got over , he connected the wires of the bomb and moved out immediately , fleeing the place with his rest of the gang , police said . What has added to the police worries is the fact that the group had managed to train several youths in the last one year . Besides , nearly 10 kg of RDX is still to be recovered out of the 24 kg consignment which was received by the group in Bikaner . ` The investigations are on , ' the DGP said . Incidentally , Gurpreet had escaped arrest days before the blast when a car laden with RDX was intercepted at Mullanpur near here . The driver of the car was Gurpreet , who managed to give police a slip then . The modus operandi of the terror attacks on the LOC_Event and the cinema hall in Ludhiana are different , said sources in Punjab Police probing the blast in the cinema hall that killed six persons . . . They said investigations so far showed there was no link with the recent blast at LOC_Event as no evidence of any mobile or phone or its SIM card having been used in the blast in the cinema hall had come out . . . Senior police officers preferred to remain silent on Wednesday saying investigations were still on . . . Officials of the Intelligence Bureau conducted daylong investigations at the blast site in Shringhar cinema . However , the IB officials declined to divulge any details . . . National Security Guards officials have also returned after inspecting the spot and holding consultations with Punjab Police officials . . It has been almost a decade-and-a-half since the heyday of militancy in Punjab . One reason why the Punjab police was caught off-guard when a high-intensity blast in a LOC_Event on October 13 left seven dead and 32 injured . Wracked as it is by internal dissension and politicisation , this act of terror could n't have come at a worse time for the force . Long years of relative peace has bred complacency among Punjab 's cops , which is why they have largely ignored several indicators suggesting possible terror strikes in the state.One such warning came late last month from the Union ministry of home affairs . Based on intelligence inputs , the mha had sounded an alert towards a possible strike in Delhi or Punjab by activists of the Babbar Khalsa International ( BKI ) . As a top intelligence official told Outlook , even after the relative peace in Punjab , security agencies have routinely tracked undercurrents in the extremist Khalistani groups both in India and abroad . `` In the last few months , '' says he , `` there was evidence of some activity which was seen as part of the ISI 's long-held plan to revive the Khalistan movement in Punjab . We are aware of its efforts in this direction and have been countering it whenever we get wind of anything . But since these Pakistan-based Sikh groups have not been successful in their efforts all these years , not much attention is being paid nowadays to such intelligence inputs and they are handled in a routine manner . `` In retrospect , this proved to be an unforgivable lapse that resulted in loss of lives . National Security Advisor M.K. Narayanan too articulated the same fears when he told the media that `` there has been a manifest attempt in Pakistan to build up a radical Sikh environment . We had intelligence about four to six months back that a lot of effort was going into attempts to foment militancy . We had been bracing for such a move by such elements '' . There were other pointers too . Earlier this year , exploiting the violence that erupted over Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh 's appearing in an ad dressed like the 10th Sikh guru , Guru Gobind Singh , fringe radical outfits in Punjab whipped up Sikh sentiment against Dera followers . They found some support from the ruling Akali Dal that was itching to get back at Dera followers for not backing them during the assembly elections in February . In the last couple of months , these radical groups , under the banner of the Khalsa Action Committee ( KAC ) , have been organising well-attended Khalsa marches in the Punjab countryside where the thrust of the speeches has been on reviving the Sikh identity , language and culture.It has taken on an ethnic hue along the way . Radical organisations with a violent past , such as the Dal Khalsa , have publicly expressed their opposition to the increasing number of migrants from Bihar and UP . The Dal Khalsa plans another Punjab Jagao march on October 31 from Amritsar to Hoshiarpur where , among other things , it has announced it will take up the issue of the changing demographic profile of Punjab due to the influx of Bihari migrant labour.It was n't a coincidence therefore that the target in the LOC_Event blast was the migrant labour community , probably the only ones interested in watching a Bhojpuri film in Punjab . As one police officer puts it , `` These groups who were forced to exist on the fringes since the end of Punjab militancy have managed to corner more space for themselves now , due to the Dera tension . Though these overground groups may lack the ability to conduct a strike like this , their activities could have given a boost to underground militant groups desperate to revive militancy in Punjab . `` That these issues do provoke a strong public response was evident in the reaction aroused by the death penalty given by a local court some weeks ago to Jagtar Hawara and Balwant Singh of the BKI for their role in the assassination of then Punjab chief minister Beant Singh in 1995 . The KAC lost no time in organising a well-attended prayer meeting for the convicts at the Akal Takht where Jathedar Joginder Singh Vedanti went to the extent of saying that `` the court should have considered Hawara and Balwant Singh 's cases sympathetically because their actions were committed in the heat of the moment '' . That in fact the BKI bosses based in Pakistan , particularly Wadhawa Singh who took a personal interest in Beant Singh 's assassination , were itching to retaliate against the Hawara-Balwant sentencing is a secret everyone knew in Punjab . And though most consider the revival of a separatist movement in the state a remote possibility , there is no denying that the retaliation against the death penalty has found a measure of public acceptance.Punjab may not require a K.P.S. Gill yet , but given the current ferment in Sikh politics , the state needs to smarten up its police force . Most officers who were involved in anti-terrorist operations or intelligence-gathering have either moved out of the state or are nearing retirement . And with its former DGP , S.S. Virk , involved in a corruption case , the force is divided down the middle . As one senior officer puts it , `` Most of us are busy currying favour with Sukhbir Badal ( the chief minister 's son ) or fixing his political adversaries to have any time for anti-terrorist operations '' . . . . Praveen Swami . . As forensic evidence trickles in , the list of possible suspects multiplies . . Terror groups have long history of collaboration with Pakistan-based Khalistani organisations . . BKI desperate to register success . . NEW DELHI : Even as the first fragments of forensic evidence of the LOC_Event Cinema bombing in Ludhiana have begun to trickle in , Punjab police investigators find themselves with a mounting list of suspects and , as yet , little hard evidence to work with . . . National Security Guard experts have determined that the bomb which ripped through the theatre was built around a core of Research Department Explosive , but officials said its final composition and construction would be known only after final results were available . . . Punjab police sources said they were focussing on the possible role of the Babbar Khalsa International -LRB- BKI -RRB- the last LOC_Event terror group believed to have credible offensive capabilities . Officials note that the globally-proscribed BKI , which frequently targeted migrant workers from Bihar during the past , has been desperate to register success . . . Ever since the Inter-Services Intelligence started to choke off funding to the BKI in 2005 , its Lahore-based chief Wadhawa Singh has been seeking to mount a major operation to raise funds from sympathisers in Europe and the United States of America , a New Delhi-based intelligence official told The Hindu . . . Only last month did the Punjab police seize 3.5 kg of RDX from a car owned by Jagraon resident Gurpreet Singh , son of a former terrorist . Investigators say Gurpreet Singh , who is absconding , met Wadhawa Singh earlier this year , after travelling to Lahore through Kuala Lumpur . . . Last year too , the Punjab police found evidence that the BKI was seeking to mount offensive operations . . . Four BKI terrorists , linked to a module controlled by the absconding Beant Singh assassin Jagtar Singh Tara , were arrested on March 21 , 2006 , and one kg of RDX was recovered . Just a day earlier , the Delhi police held the BKI operations chief Paramjit Singh Bheora and associates . Four kg of RDX was found in the terrorists safe-house near Karnal . . . BKI operative held . . In 2005 , the Delhi police arrested top BKI operative Jagtar Singh Hawara after his organisation bombed two movie theatres in New Delhi to protest what they claimed was its anti-Sikh politics . . . Hawara , architect of the 1995 assassination of Chief Minister Beant Singh , escaped from Chandigarhs Burail Jail in 2004 . . . He was sentenced to death earlier this year . . . But intelligence officials also said the evidence available so far did not justify making a determination on which terror group most likely carried out Sundays strike . Islamist terror groups have hit targets in Punjab before a fact of significance given the spate of recent attacks nationwide . . . Among the largest terror strikes conducted by the Islamist terror groups in Punjab was the March 1997 bombing of a parking lot outside the LOC_Event . . . Six people were killed and 13 injured . An ammonium nitrate-based bomb packed in a still can was used to fabricate the device used in the explosion . . . New Delhi resident Amir Hashim , a Lashkar-e-Taiba operative , who operated under the code-name Kamran , was later convicted for his role in the bombing , as well as a series of prior strikes in Punjab , Haryana and the national capital . Pakistani national Wasim Akbar , who collaborated with Hashim in the LOC_Event bombing and the abortive December 1996 strike at LOC_Event , was shot dead at Surankote , near Poonch in 1998 . . . All three top Lashkar operatives who directed Hashim the organisations overall military commander , Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi ; the head of operations outside Jammu and Kashmir , Mohammad Azam Cheema ; and his immediate superior , one-time Ghaziabad resident Abdul Karim Tunda are still active in Pakistan . . . The Islamist terror groups have a long history of collaboration with Pakistan-based Khalistani organisations such as the BKI and the Khalistan Zindabad Force . . . In 1992 , as the Khalistan movement began to disintegrate , the Central Bureau of Investigation detected efforts to revive it with assistance from Islamists in Jammu and Kashmir . BKI operative Manjit Singh , the leading figure in the operation , was recently released from prison after he served a life term . . . Role of migrant workers ? . . Ludhianas large community of Bangladeshi migrant workers , some intelligence officials suspect , may also have been used by Harkat ul-Jihad-e-Islami operatives to execute the movie theatre bombing . . . Investigators believe that Bangladesh-based HUJI operatives executed at least three recent strikes : the LOC_Event bombing in May , the LOC_Event serial bombings in August , and last weeks shrine attack in LOC_Event . . . At this stage , one official said , we need to explore every possible avenue . Blast not due to intelligence failure , asserts Badal . . Blast intensity not very high . . So far 60 persons interrogated . . Chandigarh : Deadly RDX explosive was used in the Shringaar cinema hall blast in LOC_Event recently that left six persons dead and 30 wounded , the Punjab police said here on Friday . Traces of RDX have been found . The quantity of RDX and other explosives used in the blast is half-a-kg or less , Additional Director-General of Police -LRB- Law and Order -RRB- Chandershekhar told PTI . . . Forensic , National Security Guard and Army experts had confirmed the use of the lethal explosive in the blast , he said . However , the intensity of the blast was not very high , he added . The confirmation of RDX had established involvement of cross-border anti-national forces in the blast , the cop said . Claiming that the police were zeroing in on the suspects , he said investigations were in full swing and it was not desirable to give further details at this stage . A report from LOC_Event said investigators probing the blast had so far questioned 60 people , including former terrorists and their family members . . . Badal clarifies . . Meanwhile in Jallandhar , State Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said that the LOC_Event cinema hall blast was not due to intelligence failure on part of the State , reacting to Union Minister of State for Home Prakash Jaiswals remarks . . . Blasts had occurred in Ajmer and Andhra Pradesh also but the Minister did not term these as intelligence failures , he told reporters here . - PTI . LOC_Event : Police on Thursday raided the hideouts of Gurpreet Singh , a suspect in the recent cinema hall blast here which killed six persons and injured 32 others.The suspect with a terrorist background has been on the run since September two last when his car carrying 3.5 kgs of RDX , a 50-metre wire , a detonator , iron pipes and sockets was intercepted by the police on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur National Highway.Gurpreet had abandoned the vehicle and disappeared by hoodwinking the police party.Police intensified their search for Gurpreet when forensic teams found traces of RDX in the blast at a cinema hall here.The raids conducted today have not yielded any clues to Gurpreet 's whereabouts so far , they said.However , efforts are on to track him down with a large number of his friends and family members being questioned , they added . Terror struck LOC_Event on Sunday when six people were killed and 30 injured in a blast in one of the three cinema halls in a multiplex located in a busy shopping area of this industrial town in Punjab.The multiplex has a capacity for 1,050 persons and being a festive Sunday evening , it was full . Police said the blast may have been caused by a low intensity explosive.The Intelligence Bureau has not ruled out a terrorist link to the blast . Former IB director Ajit Doval even hinted at a possible ISI linkage . Some sleeper cells of terrorists have been looking for such an opportunity . The IB has to study this development , as such an attack can not be carried out without months of planning , Doval told rediff.com . . . However , LOC_Event Range DID Ishwar Singh confirmed that the blast had been carried out by a terrorist group . No outfit has yet claimed responsibility . . . Confirming the death toll , LOC_Event 's Director General of Police N P S Aulakh said the involvement of the Babbar Khalsa could not be ruled out . The blast occurred around 8.40 pm . The evening show commenced at 7 pm . . . Four died on the spot while two died in hospital , police said . Half of the injured were in a critical condition and some of them underwent surgeries at the nearby Christian Medical College hospital . . . Ishwar Singh said the bomb was planted between the second and third seat in the third row of second block on the right side of the lower stall in the blast affected hall . Maximum damage was done to the ` lower class ' area of the hall , which is usually frequented by migrant labourers . . . The intensity of the blast was such that it created a big crater in the hall and window panes were smashed . A Bhojpuri film Janam Janam Ka Saath was being screened in the hall . . . Dr Rajesh Paul , a CMC doctor , said the victims brought to the hospital had injuries in upper and lower limbs . ` They are basically blast injuries , ' he said , adding that ` the number of casualties may go up . ' Eyewitnesses said some of the deceased had their limbs dismembered . . . Aulakh said a forensic team had already reached the spot from Chandigarh and was lifting samples , adding the nature of the explosives would be known later on . He said that LOC_Event had been already put on maximum alert in view of the current festive season . . . Police said that investigations were on to know the nature of explosives used in the attack . . . Ishwar Singh said that those who died in the incident were all males and added that only one blast had occurred and did not agree with some eyewitness accounts that two blasts had rocked the cinema hall . . . Strongly condemning the incident , LOC_Event Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal said that fundamental and anti-national forces inimical to peace and communal harmony will not be allowed to succeed in their nefarious designs . . . Badal said that law and order in the state will be maintained at all costs and appealed to people to remain calm . He also directed the civil and police officials in the state to remain vigilant and added that government will provide free medical treatment to the injured and will give adequate compensation to the next of those who had died in the incident . . . The blast occurred when the film being screened had resumed after an interval , eyewitness accounts said , adding a song was being screened when the hall was rocked by the blast . . . Immediately after the blast , panic-stricken viewers rushed out of the theatre , officials said . . . Chandigarh was put on high alertfollowing the blast . . . A police spokesmansaid security around the inter-state bus terminus , railway station and other important buildings and installations had been beefed up . . . Meanwhile , the Centreis closely monitoring the security situation in LOC_Event . . . Union Home secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to LOC_Event 's chief secretary and Director General of Police to have first hand information about the incident , official sources said . . . The Centre has assured all assistance to the state government and was also rushing bomb experts from elite National Security Guards . The Union Home secretary , after talking to Punjab chief secretary , apprised the home minister Shivraj Patil about the situation.Additional Reportage : PTI . Appears to be the handiwork of some terror outfit , say police . . LOC_Event : Terror struck LOC_Event on Sunday night when six people were killed and 25 injured in a blast in one of the three cinema halls in a multiplex in a busy shopping area of this industrial town . . . It was not immediately known what caused the explosion in the multiplex on LOC_Event , which was teeming with hundreds of people . . . Janan Janam Ke Saath was being screened in the hall , which has a capacity for an audience of 600 , when the explosion occurred at 8.40 p.m. . The show started at 7 p.m. . . The police , who did not rule out the hand of terrorists , said the casualties could go up . Limbs of some of the dead were seen . . . Chandrashekar , ADGP -LRB- Law and Order -RRB- , said the blast appeared to have been caused by a bomb . . . Victims yet to be identified . . LOC_Event DIG Ishwar Singh said half of the injured were critical and the victims were yet to be identified . The cause of the blast is yet to be ascertained . . . DGP N. P. Singh said four people died on the spot and two in hospital . . . One person came inside the theatre during interval time and the needle of suspicion was on him . . . Windowpanes in the multiplex were smashed and several chairs in the cinema hall destroyed . The blast took place under a seat in the third row of second block of the theatre . . . Immediately after the blast , panic-stricken people rushed out of the theatre , officials said . . . Creates a crater . . The intensity of the blast was such that it created a big crater in the hall and smashed the window panes . . . The Union government is closely monitoring the security situation in Punjab . . . Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to Punjabs Chief Secretary and Director-General of Police to have first hand information about the incident , official sources said . . . Mr. Gupta apprised Home Minister Shivraj Patil of the situation . The Centre has assured all assistance to the State government . It was also rushing bomb experts from the National Security Guards to Ludhiana . . . Only on Thursday last , two people were killed and nearly a dozen injured in a bomb attack on the Ajmer Dargah in Rajasthan . PTI . . Handiwork of terrorists . . Sarabjit Pandher reports from Chandigarh : . . Punjab police chief N.P.S. Aulakh said that from the preliminary investigations , it appeared to be the handiwork of some terror outfit . . . The exact nature of the device and the explosive used would be confirmed by forensic experts . . . Keeping in view the coming festival season and the blast in Ajmer , the police have sounded an alert all over the State . . . Vigil at sensitive places had been tightened and night patrol intensified . . . Talking to reporters at the site of the incident , police chief of LOC_Event district R.K. Jaiswal , said it was suspected that RDX was used . . . The incident has sent a wave of scare across the State . Senior officers were closeted in meetings . Zeenews Bureau . . Ludhiana , Oct 14 : Ludhiana , Oct 14 : A bomb blast ripped through one of the halls of the Shringar cinema hall multiplex in LOC_Event killing at least 6 and injuring 30 at around 8.50 pm on Sunday evening . The blast took place when a large number of people were watching the 7pm show of a film Janan Janam Ke Saath , DIG ( Range ) Ishwar Singh said . It was not immediately known what caused the explosion in the hall in the multiplex in Sarmala road which was teeming with hundreds of people on a festive Sunday evening . . . Reports indicate that the bomb exploded in the middle of first and second seat in the front row , near the screen . The injured have been rushed to the Christian Medical Hospital and Civil Hospital and rescue efforts are in full swing . Atleast 10 are said to be critically injured . . . ` The cause of the blast is yet to be ascertained , ' Ishwar Singh said . . . Police did not rule out the hand of terrorists in the blast but said the casualties could go up . Limbs of some of the dead were seen dismembered . . . According to an estimate , as many as 700 were watching the show on the festive occasion of Eid . Chaos and confusion prevailed after the blast as people were seen running helter and skelter searching for their loved ones . . . Fire brigades and administrative officials have reached the spot to take charge of the situation . The hall , situated on the Samrala street , was filled with smoke even as the officials took control of the situation . It is the busy market area of the city . . . Forensic experts and bomb disposal squad have also arrived at the spot . Security bandobast was in place in the wake of the recent Ajmer blast . . . DGP N P Singh said four persons died on the spot while two died in the hospital . He said one person had come inside the theatre during interval time and the needle of suspicion is on him . . . Low intensity explosives were used , N P Singh said , adding it is too early to name any terror outfit who could be behind the blast . . . Windowpanes in the multiplex were smashed while several chairs were destroyed . . . The blast comes as a shock to the people of Punjab as it has not witnessed any such incident since the dreaded terror phase . . . The govt has declared a red alert in the entire state . . . Meanwhile , the Centre has got in touch with the Punjab government seeking details about the explosion in the cinema hall here . . . Official sources in Union Home Ministry said that the Centre had spoken to officials in Punjab government , asking a complete picture of the incident . . . The Union Home Secretary , after talking to Punjab Chief Secretary , apprised the Home Minister Shivraj Patil of the situation . New Delhi : India sought Pakistan 's cooperation in tracking down the suspects in the bomb blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event as it provided evidence of cross-border linkages of these incidents at the Joint Anti-Terror Meeting on Monday . . . New Delhi also sought to know what action Islamabad had taken on the information provided about persons believed to be behind the cross-border LOC_Event blasts and other terror attacks in India over the last two years . . . `` Both sides shared new information on the terrorist incidents , including those which have occurred since the last meeting , '' a joint statement issued after the second JATM said . . . At the meeting , the Indian side provided evidence about involvement of Pakistan-based elements in the bomb blasts at the LOC_Event in Hyderabad , LOC_Event and LOC_Event over the last few months . . . Security agencies have blamed some Pakistan-based terrorists for these attacks . National Security Adviser MK Narayanan recently said Pakistani linkages were common to all these terror incidents . `` The Pakistani side assured that it will look into the evidence , '' a source said after the meeting . . . The Indian delegation was led by KC Singh , Additional Secretary ( International Organisations ) in the External Affairs Ministry , while the Pakistani side was headed by Khalid Aziz Babar , Additional Secretary ( UN ) in the Foreign Ministry . . . . New Delhi : The police on Tuesday arrested three suspected members of a Sikh militant group near Indo-Nepal border in Bihar in connection with a bomb blast at in a LOC_Event in Ludhiana , Punjab , in October this year . Legal Correspondent . . New Delhi : The Supreme Court Bar Association -LRB- SCBA -RRB- , the All-India Bar Association -LRB- AIBA -RRB- and the Bar Council of India have condemned the bomb blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event courts on November 23 . . . They urged Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Home Minister Shivraj Patil to order tightening of security in all courts of the country . They sought Chief Justice of India K.G. Balakrishnans intervention in this regard . . . Lawyers , led by SCBA president P.H. Parekh , observed Wednesday as protest day . They said the blasts in which lawyers/litigants/stamp vendors and others were killed were heinous crimes against humanity . . . It was resolved at a special general body meeting of the SCBA that members of its executive committee would call on Dr. Singh and Mr. Patil to impress on them the need to provide tight security in court premises . . . AIBA chairman Adish C. Agarwala and its vice-chairman S. Prabhakaran , in a statement , expressed serious concern over the attacks . . . The AIBA wanted the CJI to prevail on the Centre to install surveillance cameras in all courts . It called upon all members of the profession to stand united in this hour of crisis . . . BCI chairman S. Gopakumaran Nair said in a statement that the bomb blasts were highly reprehensible as they were planned , brutal and an affront to the rule of law and democratic process . It is also a challenge to the justice delivery system of our country and an open threat to the legal profession . A special court in Barabanki Friday awarded life imprisonment to alleged Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami ( HuJI ) operative Tariq Qasmi for his role in 2007 blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . Additional Sessions Judge Shanti Prakash Arvind held Qasmi guilty of sedition , keeping explosives and working against law of the country , prosecuting officer , UP ATS , Pradeep Kumar Srivastava said . The court also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the accused , he added . . . Qasmi , an Unani doctor by profession , and another accused Khalid Mujahid , now dead , were arrested with explosives on December 20 , 2007 from near Barabanki railway station , around 25 km from LOC_Event . Mujahid died on May 18 , 2013 , while being taken to court in Faizabad . . . Both were wanted for their alleged involvement in serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event courts on November 23 , 2007 . While five persons were killed in LOC_Event , no one was injured in LOC_Event as the explosion could not trigger off and RDX planted on a bicycle was recovered . . . Qasmi , a native of Sambhupur village in Azamgarh , is facing three more cases including one for his alleged involvement in a blast in LOC_Event on May 22 , 2007 , in which six persons were injured . Trial in these cases are pending in the courts . . . Defence lawyer Mohammad Shoaib said they will file challenge the judgement in a higher court . . . The Barabanki courts decision comes exactly two years after Uttar Pradesh government led by Akhilesh Yadav had moved to withdraw cases against Qasmi and Mujahid . The state government had on April 24 , 2013 directed the District Magistrate of LOC_Event to file an application in court for withdrawal of the case . . . It was the first terror case that the Akhilesh Yadav government had decided to withdraw in line with the partys election promise to withdraw terror cases against innocent youths . However , on May 8 , a Barabanki court had rejected the plea saying that the government had filed faulty and incomplete papers . The government had then moved the high court , which rejected the appeal and later stayed the move to withdraw cases against other terror accused . . . Thirty-seven-year-old Qasmi , who reportedly has degree of Bachelor of Unani Medicines & Surgery ( BUMS ) , used to run a clinic at Rani Ki Sarai locality in Azamgarh before UP STF arrested him along with co-accused Mujahid with RDX , detonators , gelatin rods and cellphones in LOC_Event . Mujahid was a resident of Jaunpur district . . . Raising questions on the duos arrest , their families had alleged both were picked from their native places . They claimed to have faxed complaints to the offices of Prime Minister , UP CM and National Human Rights Commission even before the STF declared their arrest . . . The Mayawati government had set up R D Nimesh Commission on March 14 , 2008 to probe the matter . The commission , it is report , referred police claim about the date , place and timing of the arrests as doubtful . The state government had tabled the report in the Assembly without any action taken report . . . . The Assam Police have arrested six persons in LOC_Event district for alleged links with the Jamaatul Mujahideen Bangladesh ( JMB ) , which is suspected to be behind the October 2 blast at LOC_Event in West Bengal . A Kamrup court on Friday remanded all the arrested Golam Osmani , Johurddin , Siraj Ali Khan , Rafiqul Islam , Sarbes Ali and Saiful Islam in 14-day police custody , Assam Home Commissioner G.D. Tripathi said . Terror activities of the JMB attracted global attention when it created a reign of terror in Bangladesh by triggering blasts in 300 locations in 63 districts , including LOC_Event , on August 17 , 2005 . Burdwan : The Central investigators probing the October 2 blast in West Bengal 's Burdwan , found at least 30 hand grenades in the toilet of a house near the site - one that was searched and sealed by the state police eight days ago.The Bengal police had raided the house - on Badshahi Road - on October 8 after questioning the two women arrested from the house in LOC_Event , where the blast took place . The house was vacant at the time of the raid - half-a-dozen men living there who claimed to be masons , had decamped . Among those absconding is one Rezaul , suspected to be a key Jihadi element . But today , the sniffer dogs of the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) and the National Security Guards ( NSG ) found the bombs - bolstering the Opposition claims that the state police are hiding evidence at the behest of the ruling Trinamool Congress.The BJP 's Siddharth Nath Singh , in fact , had 10 questions for the Mamata Banerjee government , including one regarding the conspiracy '' that forced her government to allow evidence at LOC_Event to be destroyed . The Trinamool snapped back , asking what Mr Singh 's locus standi was anyway . Ms Banerjee was in Jhargram , where she did not refer to the LOC_Event blast except to call for communal harmony . We should all live in peace but there are some mischievous people who do n't want that , '' she said.Earlier today , the NIA-NSG teams combed a madrasa at Simulia with bomb detectors . They also detained two relatives of the absconding principal Yusuf Sheikh.During its probe that began on Sunday , the NIA had found material suggesting the madrasa may have been used as a hub by jihadi elements linked to the LOC_Event blast . Air gun pellets , sharp-edged weapons , money receipts and jihadi literature - including a Bengali book titled , How To Die A Good Death '' - were found , said sources . . Sushanta Talukdar . . Guwahati : One person was killed and 17 were injured in a bomb blast suspected to have been triggered by the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- in the busy LOC_Event area near Dispur on Wednesday . The blast occurred around 6.30 p.m. about 100 meters from the Dispur police station . . . Injured admitted to hospital . . The condition of three of the injured is stated to be critical and they have been admitted to the intensive care unit of the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital . A CRPF patrol party , stationed nearby , escaped unharmed . . . Additional Superintendent of Police Rajen Singh told The Hindu that the explosion was suspected to have been triggered by a timer device concealed in a vegetable sack . . . Another blast . . Another blast occurred at LOC_Event in LOC_Event 's Goalpara district earlier in the day immediately after an Army vehicle crossed the area , police sources said . . . There was no report of any casualty . . . The blasts occurred amid intensified counter-insurgency operations by the Army in upper Assam . Sources said a new brigade headquarters was shifted to Dibrugarh . The Mountain Brigade headed by Brig. I.P.S. Gill was shifted from Rupa in Bomdila district of Arunachal Pradesh . It will concentrate on Dibrugarh district while another brigade headquarters based at Laipuli in Tinsukia district will mainly carry out counter-insurgency operations in the district . GUWAHATI : After a lull of about one month , rebels struck again in Guwahati by triggering a bomb blast that killed a 60-year-old man from Bihar and injured 20 on Saturday . Though no outfit claimed responsibility for the blast , DIG -LRB- central range -RRB- G P Singh did not rule out the possibility of Ulfa 's involvement in it . Terming the attack as a ` cowardice act ' , chief minister Tarun Gogoi asked security forces to step up counter-insurgency operations in the state . ` The government will deal with these forces -LRB- terrorists -RRB- with a firm hand . I appeal to all to stay united and cooperate with the government , ' he said . Cops said rebels placed a powerful IED in a van that had a logo of Indian Airlines . The explosion took place at 11.50 am at a market at LOC_Event . Three LPG cylinders at a shop also exploded due to the impact of the blast , setting fire to several shops in the crowded locality . The deceased was identified by cops as Ram Lal Ram . He was a native of Begusarai in Bihar and had been living in the city for a long time . Later , the driver of the van was detained . Though police identified the van owner , they declined to give details about him . Special Correspondent . . Guwahati : The Special Investigation Team -LRB- SIT -RRB- probing the October 30 serial blasts in Assam produced another accused before the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate on Sunday . . . Police said that all the three Maruti cars used as car-bombs were in possession of one Punkha Brahma the day before the serial blasts . . . Punkha Brahma was arrested from the citys Garchuk locality by SIT based on the alleged confession made by another arrested person Dinesh Boro . The court remanded him to 12 days in police custody . . . However , the arrested youth , whose face was masked with a black cloth as he was brought to the court , claimed that he was innocent . The SIT has so far arrested six persons , including Punkha Brahma , and picked up about 40 people for questioning in connection with the serial blasts . . . Police sources said interrogations of the arrested revealed that all the three cars were from Baksa district . Dinesh Boro and Punkha Boro were allegedly involved in the movement of the cars and providing logistics to the perpetrators of the terror attacks . Initial probe revealed that the number plates of the cars were fake . Police then began tracking down the owners with the help of the engine and chassis numbers . Six days ago,eight-year-old Masum , a class II student from Sipajhar , was brought to Guwahati Medical College to be operated upon for a tumour below her left ear . Today , she was discharged . But she never made it home . . . Masum was on her way home with her father , grandmother and uncle . The family stopped for a cup of tea at a popular LOC_Event at LOC_Event in LOC_Event at 2 pm , when a powerful explosion occurred just outside the stall . Masum died on the spot . . . Two hours later , Masums grandmother Jaharunnessa ( 58 ) succumbed to injuries at a hospital . Majibur Rahman , Masums father , who has sustained grievous injuries from the explosion , is undergoing treatment at Guwahati Medical College . . . At least seven persons were killed in the blast that rocked LOC_Event blast on Monday . More than 58 people , several of whom are said to be critical , are undergoing treatment at different hospitals here . . . The explosion occurred a day ahead of Prime Minister Manmohan Singhs scheduled visit to the state . On Sunday , President Pratibha Patil had left Guwahati after a four-day visit to Assam and Arunachal Pradesh . . . Masums death has brought back memories of Moromi Sharma , a 10-year-old girl , who was killed in the serial blasts that had rocked LOC_Event on October 30 last year . Moromi , daughter of a carpenter , had battled for life for four days before she died . . . Bhupen Kumar ( 37 ) , who was on his way to fetch his wife Dipu , a teacher at a private school in LOC_Event , too , became a victim of the blast . . . Bhupen had been struggling for several years a small-time contactor . He had just started doing fairly well . He got married in December 2007 and had called me only last week to tell me that his wife is pregnant , said Bhupen friend Abhijit Sharma . . . . One person was killed and seven injured when a bicycle-bomb went off outside a LOC_Event in LOC_Event town on Monday night . . . Police suspect that the blast was the handiwork of the Paresh Barua faction of the United Liberation Front of Asom -LRB- ULFA -RRB- . . . Home Secretary G. D. Tripathi told The Hindu that one critically injured person was shifted to Assam Medical College in Dibrugarh , while the others were admitted to hospitals in LOC_Event town . . . It is suspected that an improvised explosive device was used . Had the blast occurred in the evening when the place is crowded , there would have been many more casualties , Mr. Tripathi said . . . PTI reports : . . Police said the blast was triggered between LOC_Event and LOC_Event in the heart of the town . CHENNAI : A woman was killed and 14 others injured , two of them critically , when two low-intensity bombs exploded in a span of five minutes on two coaches of the Bangalore-Guwahati train at the busy Central Railway station here today . . . The Tamil Nadu government ordered a probe by its special CB-CID wing as police detained a suspect in connection with the blasts . . . The Guwahati-bound train arrived here late by about an hour at 7.05 AM at Platform No. 9 and in a span of five minutes , two low intensity bombs exploded in S4 and S5 coaches , police said . . . Passengers of the train , who were waiting to board on its onward journey after a ten minute halt , were jolted by the sound of the explosion and ran helter-skelter . . . A woman was killed in the blast while 14 others were injured . . . The 22-year-old victim , who lost her life in the explosion , has been identified as Swati travelling to Guntur via Vijayawada and the injured are undergoing treatment at the state-run Rajiv Gandhi hospital where doctors described their condition as `` out of danger '' . . . LOC_Event DGP K Ramanujam , who inspected the damaged S4 and S5 coaches of the train , said , `` City police , Railway Police , forensic experts and bomb disposal squads have been searching the coaches of the train . The coaches of other trains are also being checked '' , he said . . . `` It is not a major blast . It is suspected that LOC_Event could not have been target of those who were behind the blast because the train was running late . Some other location could have been the target '' , Ramanujam said . . . `` It is premature to say what kind of device was used in the blast . Damage to the train is not heavy , '' he added . . . DGP ( Elections ) Anoop Jaiswal said , `` We are picking up clues and any speculation on this is too premature '' , he said . . . Jaiswal said nobody has been arrested in connection with the blasts . . . LOC_Event Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa ordered CB-CID investigation into the blasts and announced Rs one lakh ex-gratia to the family of the deceased , besides Rs 50,000 each to the grievously wounded and Rs 25,000 to those with minor injuries . . . She condemned the explosions and directed police to nab those behind the act . . . The blasts came two days after the arrest of a terror suspect hailing from Sri Lanka and believed to have links with Indian terror modules . . . The Guwahati-bound train was cleared for onward journey after replacing the damaged coaches , Railway sources said . . . Railway Minister M Mallikarjun Kharge said in Bangalore that an expert from New Delhi will visit LOC_Event to find the cause behind the blasts and announced Rs one lakh ex-gratia to the family of the deceased . . . He also announced Rs 25,000 each to the seriously injured and Rs 5,000 each to those with minor injuries.Treatment expenses for the injured would be borne by the Railways , he said . . . `` Investigation is going on and both the railway board and Tamil Nadu Police are cooperating with each other . When we get the detailed report , we will be able to know the cause of the incident , '' he said . . . Commissioner Railway Safety ( southern circle ) S K Mittal will conduct an inquiry into the incident , Railway Spokesperson Anil Saxena said . . . Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde , who is in Himachal Pradesh for campaigning for Congress candidates , said , `` I have directed my officials to provide all assistance to the state government . . . Union Home Secretary Anil Goswami told PTI , `` We are in touch with the Tamil Nadu government and have sought a report on the incident '' . . . Asked whether the blast can be termed as a terror attack , Goswami said it was too early to arrive at any conclusion . . . `` We are still waiting for the details , '' he said . Railway Board Chairman Arunendra Kumar said , `` It seems the blast took place under a berth '' . . . A team of National Security Guard and explosive experts is likely to be sent to LOC_Event to join in the investigation into the blast . . . NIA team from Hyderabad is being rushed to the blast site , official sources said . . . Southern Railway has set up a helpline to provide information to the public . The helpline number is 044-64502416 . . . Security has been tightened across LOC_Event particularly at airports , railway stations and bus terminals besides key installations like nuclear power stations in the wake of the bomb blasts . . . Search on all inbound and out-bound trains in LOC_Event Central station continued and police also resorted to similar action across the state which affected train schedules . . . Opposition parties including DMK and DMDK today slammed the state government for failing to maintain law and order . . . DMK president M Karunanidhi recalled the recent arrest of Mohamed Zahir Hussain , suspected of having links with Indian terror modules , and charged that lack of proper steps in the wake of his nabbing has led to such an incident . PTI . By Our Special Correspondent NEW DELHI , AUG. . 11 . The Army is unlikely to launch fresh operations against Kashmiri militants following the withdrawal of the ceasefire by the Hizbul Mujahideen and Thursday 's bomb blast in Srinagar . Highly-placed Government sources said the Army had been told to keep its powder dry but refrain from operations which could impede the possible revival of the peace dialogue with the militants , especially the Hizbul Mujahideen . The Government is keen on engaging all the local Kashmir groups in talks , but will frontally take on the foreign - dominated Jehadi groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Harkatul Mujahideen . The security forces , however , will carry out routine counter-insurgency operations without making any exception for the Hizbul Mujahideen , they observed . Strike affects life Shujaat Bukhari writes from Srinagar : While the media fraternity in Kashmir bid a tearful farewell to their colleague , Pradeep Bhatia , killed in Thursday 's car bomb blast , a general strike called by the National Security Organisation -LRB- NSO -RRB- , an alliance of pro-India militant outfits , affected normal life in the Valley today . Though most shops and business establishments did not open in the morning , gunmen of the NSO headed by an MLC were seen enforcing the strike . -LRB- According to PTI , the NSO is headed by Javed Hussain Shah , one of the first counter-insurgents and now an MLC . -RRB- Police and NSO members were seen swooping down on auto-rickshaws , buses and other vehicles for violating the bandh call . Policemen were angry over the dastardly killing of their nine colleagues on Thursday . Wreaths for Bhatia Scores of Srinagar-based journalists paid homage to Pradeep Bhatia , photographer of The Hindustan Times , who was among the 14 killed and more than 30 injured . The body of Bhatia was brought from the Police Control Room to the Press Enclave on Residency Road , and journalists from all newspapers and agencies laid wreaths amid emotional scenes . The Director-General of Police , Mr. Gurbachan Jagat , the State Government 's media consultant , Mr. Farooq Nazki , the Director Information , Mr. Kulbhushan Jandial , were among those who paid tributes . Nine of the 30 injured were flown to Delhi in a BSF plane for specialised treatment as their condition was worsening . Salahuddin threatens ` major strikes ' By B. Muralidhar Reddy LOC_Event , AUG. 11 . The Hizbul Mujahideen chief , Syed Salahuddin , has claimed that his organisation would go for `` major strikes '' in the next few days to force the India to hold talks with Pakistan . In an interview to Jang , an Urdu daily , the Hizbul commander was quoted as saying : `` We will resort to heavy shelling in the next couple of days ... as has not been done in the last 10 years . India would have to pay a heavy price for rejecting the ceasefire offer . '' Asserting that any dialogue with India on the Kashmir issue would not be acceptable without the involvement of Pakistan , Syed Salahuddin said his organisation decided to go for a ceasefire in response to requests from diplomats of several countries including the United States . He claimed that diplomats of western countries urged the Hizbul to extend the deadline , but his organisation decided against it in view of the `` rigid stand of India '' . He has been quoted as saying that India can not now blame the Pakistani intelligence agency , Inter-Services Intelligence , for terrorist activities in Kashmir as India had admitted after the ceasefire announcement that 90 per cent of the attacks are carried out by the Hizbul cadres . In response to a question on the nature of help the Pakistan Army could extend to those engaged in fighting in Kashmir , he has been quoted as saying : `` What help can the Pakistan Army give us ? We have seen the results in the past . Had the Pakistan leadership taken timely action , the issue would have been resolved earlier . '' The United Jehadi Council , umbrella organisation of the Pakistan-based militant organisations , has also been quoted in the Urdu papers as saying that it has decided to launch joint strikes against Indian military installations and other institutions . Another Urdu daily , Ausaf , said a joint strategy was being evolved to carry out the strikes . Sahara cup withdrawal flayed Meanwhile , the Pakistan Information Minister , Mr. Javed Jabbar , has criticised India for its decision not to play in the Sahara cricket tournament and accused India of mixing sports with politics and the `` freedom struggle '' in Kashmir . `` The decision not to play the Sahara cup has exposed the deceitful policy in dealing with the recent unilateral offer of ceasefire , '' Mr. Jabbar said . . . By Our Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI , AUG. . 11 . The Army is unlikely to launch fresh operations against Kashmiri militants following the withdrawal of the ceasefire by the Hizbul Mujahideen and Thursday 's bomb blast in Srinagar . . . Highly-placed Government sources said the Army had been told to keep its powder dry but refrain from operations which could impede the possible revival of the peace dialogue with the militants , especially the Hizbul Mujahideen . . . The Government is keen on engaging all the local Kashmir groups in talks , but will frontally take on the foreign - dominated Jehadi groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Harkatul Mujahideen . . . The security forces , however , will carry out routine counter-insurgency operations without making any exception for the Hizbul Mujahideen , they observed . . . Strike affects life . . Shujaat Bukhari writes from Srinagar : . . While the media fraternity in Kashmir bid a tearful farewell to their colleague , Pradeep Bhatia , killed in Thursday 's car bomb blast , a general strike called by the National Security Organisation -LRB- NSO -RRB- , an alliance of pro-India militant outfits , affected normal life in the Valley today . . . Though most shops and business establishments did not open in the morning , gunmen of the NSO headed by an MLC were seen enforcing the strike . -LRB- According to PTI , the NSO is headed by Javed Hussain Shah , one of the first counter-insurgents and now an MLC . -RRB- Police and NSO members were seen swooping down on auto-rickshaws , buses and other vehicles for violating the bandh call . Policemen were angry over the dastardly killing of their nine colleagues on Thursday . . . Wreaths for Bhatia . . Scores of Srinagar-based journalists paid homage to Pradeep Bhatia , photographer of The Hindustan Times , who was among the 14 killed and more than 30 injured . The body of Bhatia was brought from the Police Control Room to the Press Enclave on Residency Road , and journalists from all newspapers and agencies laid wreaths amid emotional scenes . The Director-General of Police , Mr. Gurbachan Jagat , the State Government 's media consultant , Mr. Farooq Nazki , the Director Information , Mr. Kulbhushan Jandial , were among those who paid tributes . . . Nine of the 30 injured were flown to Delhi in a BSF plane for specialised treatment as their condition was worsening . . . Salahuddin threatens ` major strikes ' . . By B. Muralidhar Reddy . . ISLAMABAD , AUG. 11 . The Hizbul Mujahideen chief , Syed Salahuddin , has claimed that his organisation would go for `` major strikes '' in the next few days to force the India to hold talks with Pakistan . In an interview to Jang , an Urdu daily , the Hizbul commander was quoted as saying : `` We will resort to heavy shelling in the next couple of days ... as has not been done in the last 10 years . India would have to pay a heavy price for rejecting the ceasefire offer . '' . . Asserting that any dialogue with India on the Kashmir issue would not be acceptable without the involvement of Pakistan , Syed Salahuddin said his organisation decided to go for a ceasefire in response to requests from diplomats of several countries including the United States . . . He claimed that diplomats of western countries urged the Hizbul to extend the deadline , but his organisation decided against it in view of the `` rigid stand of India '' . He has been quoted as saying that India can not now blame the Pakistani intelligence agency , Inter-Services Intelligence , for terrorist activities in Kashmir as India had admitted after the ceasefire announcement that 90 per cent of the attacks are carried out by the Hizbul cadres . . . In response to a question on the nature of help the Pakistan Army could extend to those engaged in fighting in Kashmir , he has been quoted as saying : `` What help can the Pakistan Army give us ? We have seen the results in the past . Had the Pakistan leadership taken timely action , the issue would have been resolved earlier . '' . . The United Jehadi Council , umbrella organisation of the Pakistan-based militant organisations , has also been quoted in the Urdu papers as saying that it has decided to launch joint strikes against Indian military installations and other institutions . Another Urdu daily , Ausaf , said a joint strategy was being evolved to carry out the strikes . . . Sahara cup withdrawal flayed . . Meanwhile , the Pakistan Information Minister , Mr. Javed Jabbar , has criticised India for its decision not to play in the Sahara cricket tournament and accused India of mixing sports with politics and the `` freedom struggle '' in Kashmir . `` The decision not to play the Sahara cup has exposed the deceitful policy in dealing with the recent unilateral offer of ceasefire , '' Mr. Jabbar said . At least six persons were injured in bomb blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event this evening . Police said four persons were severely injured when a powerful bomb went off in a State road transport bus at the LOC_Event terminus this evening . The bomb exploded soon after the bus , coming from a nearby village , was parked at the terminus . Four persons standing nearby were hit by splinters . The condition of three of the injured is stated to be critical . . . Police said the blast could have caused more casualties if the bomb had gone off 30 minutes later , when thousands of people were expected to assemble in the adjacent ground for the ` Ravan-dahan '' celebrations on Dussehra . . . In LOC_Event , two persons were injured in a blast while scraps were being loaded in a truck at a scrap market in the LOC_Event locality . The bomb apparently came with the scrap materials , but police could not say if it was planted intentionally . Both the injured have been declared out of danger . . . Incidentally , the bomb blasts took place a day after a section of the minorities observed a ` bandh '' in various parts of Gujarat , protesting against the remarks by an American preacher against Islam . . . Meanwhile , the Ahmedabad City Sessions Court has filed chargesheets against 23 accused in the Gulmarg Society incident of Chamanpura locality on February 28 , in which more than 30 persons , including the former Congress member of the Lok Sabha , Ehsan Jafri , were burnt alive . . . The charges against the accused include unlawful assembly , looting , rape , arson and murder . Framing the chargesheets , the Additional Sessions Judge , B. N. Jani , observed that the accused had gathered outside the Society with the intention of murdering Muslims , in the aftermath of the LOC_Event train carnage . The accused were also charged with raising provocative slogans and instigating a mob of about 20,000 people to attack the residential colony and set people afire . A specific charge of rape was framed against a person , Prabhudas Mochi . The court held that at least two women were raped in Gulmarg Society . . . It was the first chargesheet filed in the Gulmarg Society case . The chargesheets in the other heinous crime in LOC_Event locality on the same day was filed earlier . More than 120 people were burnt alive in the two incidents in LOC_Event on the ` Gujarat bandh '' day called by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad to protest against the Godhra carnage . New Delhi , Oct. 29 : Bombs today ripped through three New Delhi markets packed with families shopping for Diwali and Id , killing over 50 people and wounding many more . . . Burnt bodies , bloodstains , glass shards and smoking debris littered the spots as rescuers frantically pulled out the dead and injured . Thousands of survivors milled around in shock , trying to find out what had happened to missing relatives . . . The government immediately sounded a national alert and the crisis management group went into a huddle . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh cut short his visit to Calcutta and dashed back to the capital . . . Singh called it an act of terrorism . This kind of cynical attack on the people of India is just not acceptable , said a spokesman for the Prime Minister . He ( Singh ) is very distressed . India will never be defeated by terrorism . . . In a rapid reaction , Pakistan showed no hesitation in terming the blasts an act of terrorism . Pakistan strongly condemns the terrorist attacks in New Delhi . The attack in a crowded market place is a criminal act of terrorism , a foreign office statement said . . . There was no immediate finger-pointing for the explosions , which come at a time when India and Pakistan are discussing lowering border barriers to bolster earthquake relief efforts . But home minister Shivraj Patil said : They were not accidental . . . Terrorism is a menace that we all have to face and fight unitedly , Sonia Gandhi said after visiting the injured in Safdarjung hospital . . . The first explosion , in Paharganjs 6 LOC_Event at 5.30 pm , LOC_Event and killed at least eight people on the spot . Besides being a major shopping area flanking LOC_Event , LOC_Event is near the New Delhi railway station and has many hotels for budget tourists . . . There was a huge sound , said Sunita , who lives near the market . I saw many people lying on the ground . I saw a childs arm cut off and somebody elses brain smashed out . It was very bad . Very bad . . . The toll in the second blast at LOC_Event crowded LOC_Event is expected to be high because the improvised explosive device went off near a cooking gas cylinder used by a snack vendor . . . Shopkeepers cleared their carts and used them as makeshift stretchers to rush victims to hospitals . AIIMS , Safdarjung , Lady Hardinge and Ram Manohar Lohia struggled to cope with the rush . . . At Govindpuri in south Delhi , an alert bus conductor averted a huge toll . Noticing someone had left their bag behind in the bus , he hurled it outside , where it exploded , killing three persons . . . The government called for calm . A red alert was sounded in Delhi , its borders were sealed and all markets were closed down . Mumbai police put the financial capital , target of several blasts in the past 12 years , on high alert . . . Delhi police , who said RDX had been used in all the blasts , saw parallels with the 1997 serial explosions in the capital , which were masterminded by Abdul Karim Tunda , a Lashkar-e-Toiba bomb expert . . . A Delhi court was expected to sentence a suspected Lashkar militant today in the LOC_Event attack case , but put it off till Monday . Earlier this year , the capital had witnessed twin cinema blasts . . . Ten people were detained from New Delhi railway station and a few bus terminals . A hotel was also raided . . . Washington had recently warned of possible attacks on US interests in India . . . We saw bodies terribly charred , limbs missing . It was a horrible sight , a terrible sight , one British tourist said . Dont let the terrorists win . NEW DELHI , 16 April 2006 Police yesterday said they had detained four suspects in connection with the twin blasts at Delhis LOC_Event that injured 14 people as security was stepped up at temples and mosques across northern India to guard against reprisal attacks . Two of the detainees were picked up early yesterday while the other two were detained late Friday , said a police official who did not wish to be named . Three of them are from Delhi while the fourth says he is not from here , he said . We have not arrested them . They are in custody for questioning . Though the prayer routine at the historic mosque was back to normal , politicians and police officers remained puzzled about who was responsible for Fridays attack . LOC_Event spokesman Amanullah Khan said : There is absolutely no tension , everything is fine , everything is normal . You can say we are back to our normal routine . On who could be responsible for the attack , Khan said : That is not for us to say . The police are on their job . We are sure they will find out . A special cell of the Delhi Police is conducting investigations into the blasts . With the 17th century mosque having been targeted for the first time , the investigating officers are also wondering on this being a deliberate attempt to create tension in a communally sensitive area . Preliminary examination of explosives suggests , sources said , that the blasts were not meant to kill or destroy but cause panic and doubt . Both bombs , with the quantum of phosphorous-sulphur mix being less than 100 grams , were kept 15 feet apart . The intention behind the explosions was to create panic in the city , police officials said . Intelligence sources are of the opinion that LOC_Event blasts have not been carried out by any major terrorist group . We are looking at various angles , including previous attacks . The probe is on , Joint Commissioner ( Special Cell ) Karnail Singh said . Meanwhile , leaders cutting across party lines have appealed for calm and strongly condemned the bomb attack . President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and other leaders have condemned the blasts in the LOC_Event and in LOC_Event . They have appealed to people to maintain communal harmony . While Congress leader Sonia Gandhi visited the LOC_Event late on Friday night , the Congress party condemned the explosions yesterday . Communist Party of India ( Marxist ) said in a statement : The two blasts in the premises of the LOC_Event in Delhi are an obvious provocation to outrage religious sentiments and create communal disharmony . Condemning the blasts , CPI ( M ) asked authorities to track down the culprits . Among other parties , Bharatiya Janata Party , Communist Party of India , Forward Bloc and Janata Dal ( S ) have also condemned the LOC_Event blasts . Syed Ahmed Bukhari , shahi imam of Jama Masjid termed the blasts as a desperate attempt by divisive forces to disturb communal harmony . Alok Kumar , deputy police chief of the LOC_Event area , said there was tight security at all Hindu temples in New Delhi . . . . The government on Wednesday said the Indian economic growth story is intact and a dastardly act like the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event on Tuesday will not break the country 's resolve to move forward . . . ` This kind of cowardly and dastardly act -LRB- blasts in LOC_Event on Tuesday -RRB- will not break our will and resolve to move forward , ' Finance Minister P Chidambaram told reporters in New Delhi . . . A solitary attack can not be a setback to economic activity all over India or even in Mumbai , Chidambaram said . . . Serial bomb blasts ripped through suburban trains in LOC_Event on Tuesday , killing at least 190 people and injuring over 600 others . . . On Wednesday , life in the city returned to normal as train services resumed and schools and colleges remained open . Chidambaram said the country 's economic growth story is intact with industrial and manufacturing growth remaining buoyant . . . Official data on industrial production released on Wednesday showed that the strong performance in the manufacturing sector pulled the overall Index of Industrial Production marginally up to 9.8 per cent during April-May of the current fiscal as compared to 9.5 per cent in the corresponding period of 2005-06 . . . Manufacturing shot up by 10.9 per cent in April-May this fiscal from 10.3 per cent last fiscal . . . Chidambaram said investors continued to repose confidence in the Indian economy . . . Attractive quarterly results announced by IT major Infosys Technologies rescued the stock markets from a major plunge after the serial blasts and placed the benchmark index Sensex considerably higher by 170.46 points , according to latest reports . . . . . LOC_Event blasts : Complete Coverage . . ` Economic impact of blasts to be limited ' . . Blasts : Minimal impact on markets . The United States has imposed sanctions on four Pakistan-based terrorists including a Lashkar-e-Toiba operative accused in the 2007 Samjhauta blasts and 2006 LOC_Event train bombings , freezing their assets and travel in the US . . . Arif Qasmani , chief coordinator and fundraiser for the Lashkar , and three others Ameen Al-Peshawari , Yahya Mujahid and Nasir Javaid ca n't enter into financial transactions in the US , or with a US national . . . The US action came two days after the four men were banned by the UN under Resolution 1267 , also known as the Al Qaeda and Taliban Sanctions Committee . The UN ban makes it obligatory for all member nations to freeze funds and assets of proscribed individuals and impose a ban on their travel . . . `` The designated individuals have provided direct support to Al Qaeda and LeT and ... facilitated terrorist attacks , including the July 2006 train bombing in Mumbai , '' said a statement from the US Treasury Department . . . Qasmani is known to have links with Dawood Ibrahim , one of India 's most wanted criminals now based in Pakistan . The statement said part of the money he received from Dawood was used to finance the train bombings in which close to 200 people were killed . . . Qasmani is also said to have provided financial and other support to Al Qaeda leaders , facilitated their movement in and out of Afghanistan , and provided them with weapons and supplies . In return , Al Qaeda provided Qasmani with operatives to support the LOC_Event bombings and the Samjhauta attack , the statement said . . . Yahya Mujahid is Lashkar 's main spokesperson , and the group 's media contact . He issued statements on behalf of Lashkar after the Parliament attack in 2001 and last year 's terror strikes in LOC_Event . . . Nasir Javaid is an LeT commander who also trains its cadres . . . Ameen Al-Peshawari has recruited fighters and suicide bombers for Al Qaeda , and raised funds and acquired equipment for militants in Afghanistan , the statement said . . . ... contd . Atiq Khan . . Ammonium nitrate may have been used in crude bombs . . Police trying to trace shops where cycles were bought No proof to suggest timer device was used . . LUCKNOW : The investigating agencies have ruled out the use of RDX in Tuesday 's serial bomb blasts in Gorakhpur . . . Principal Secretary -LRB- Home -RRB- K. Chandramouli told newspersons here on Wednesday after his return from Gorakhpur that the blasts were caused by low intensity bombs kept in tiffin boxes attached to three new cycles . He said ammonium nitrate might have been used in the crude bombs . . . Mr. Chandramouli said the cycles were bought from different shops . The police had traced one shop and efforts were on to trace the others . The identification of the shops is expected to give crucial leads . . . He said six persons sustained minor injuries in the blasts and were discharged from hospital after receiving first aid on Tuesday . They were Guddu Chaubey , Rajesh Sharma , Sanjay Rai , Santosh Singh , Rameshwar Patel and Vivek Yadav . . . On those behind the blasts , Mr. Chandramouli said no conclusion could be drawn as the investigations were in the preliminary stage . . . The crude bombs were battery-charged and there was no proof to suggest whether a timer device was used as trigger . One bomb was kept near a petrol pump and two near a transformer . . . Mr. Chandramouli said the Special Task Force of the Uttar Pradesh police was looking into the case . . . The Government Railway Police recovered an abandoned bag from the waiting room of the Faizabad railway station on Wednesday . Mr. Chandramouli said it contained ammonium nitrate used for making crackers . Investigations are on . The Uttar Pradesh police has released sketches of four suspects in connection with the Fridays multiple blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . LOC_Event , Nov 24 : The Uttar Pradesh police has released sketches of four suspects in connection with the Friday 's multiple blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . The Deputy Inspector General ( DIG ) P P Srivastav today released the sketch of a 25-year-old youth wearing spectacles who had allegedly picked up a bicycle from the cycle stand at the railway station and after loading it with explosives allegedly kept it in the compound of the Faizabad civil court . . . The state police last night released sketches of three suspects believed to behind the blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event courts . . . The sketch of the suspect who purchased the bicycle from a shop on Thursday and kept it at the railway station stand was among the three sketches released last night . . . The sketches were prepared on the basis of the statements of eyewitnesses including lawyers . . . The Uttar Pradesh government today said that lawyers were the target of Friday 's serial blasts , possibly because of their refusal to represent terrorists arrested in connection with various blasts in the LOC_Event . . . State 's Principal Secretary ( Home ) J N Chamber referred to the lawyers ' assault on three JeM militants , who were arrested from LOC_Event recently , while being produced in the court . . . He also referred to the lawyers refusal to represent the accused in the Sankatmochan temple blast in Varanasi , and Faizabad lawyers ' refusal to represent the accused in the Ram Janambhoomi complex blast in July 2005 . . . In the wake of Friday 's blasts , security at court premises will be steeped , he said , adding that directives have been issued in this regard . . . Meanwhile , Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad ( VHP ) sponsored shutdown called to protest against the Friday 's serial blasts evoked a mixed response . . . No violence has been reported during the state-wide shutdown . . . LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event were the worst affected areas with most of the shops and business establishments remaining closed . . . In Varanasi , where at least nine people were killed in Friday 's blasts , Bajrang Dal activists took to the streets . . . The activists forced the shopkeepers to close their shops in the city . . . However , Samajwadi Party workers halted a train in Allahabad in protest against the state Government and demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Mayawati . . . In some parts of Lucknow , shops and business were closed , while public transport in the city was normal . . . But the attacks could n't deter the faith of thousands of devotees who turned out in large numbers on the banks of Ganges River in Varanasi to take a holy dip on the occasion of Kartik Purnima , the full moon day . . . `` Terrorism can never affect the faith of people . History reveals that devout Hindus are always ready to sacrifice their life for their faith , '' said Mridul Mishra , a devotee . . . Similar scenes were visible in Ayodhya , where four people were killed in Friday 's blast . . . `` Security arrangements are very good here . We are not scared at all , '' said Sachidanand Pandey , a devotee . . . Meanwhile , Special Task Force has been asked to probe the near-simultaneous blasts in court premises at Varanasi , Faizabad and Lucknow , that killed 15 people , four of them lawyers , and injured over 80 . . . Six bombs - three in Varansi , two in Faizabad and one in Lucknow - some planted on cycles , went off within a span of 15 minutes . . . The blasts came a week after the Uttar Pradesh police along with central security agencies busted a Jaish-e-Mohammed module , which wanted to target Congress leader Rahul Gandhi . . . addthis_url = location.href ; addthis_title = document.title ; addthis_pub = ` vijaytech ' ; . . a36 ( ) ; . . . The Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad ( VHP ) have called for a state-wide shutdown today in protest against the simultaneous bomb blasts in court premises in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event on Friday . . . LOC_Event , Nov 24 : The Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad ( VHP ) have called for a state-wide shutdown today in protest against the simultaneous bomb blasts in court premises in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event on Friday . . . BJP President Rajnath Singh is scheduled to visit Uttar Pradesh to meet injured in the hospitals and to take stock of the situation in the affected areas . . . Meanwhile , Samajwadi Party workers have already begun their protest early Saturday morning , stopping the Ganga-Gomti Express at the Allahabad railway station . . . In LOC_Event , a four-member forensic team is examining vital clues related to the blasts as to who could be behind the serial blasts . . . According to sources , a terrorist group called Indian Mujahideen has claimed responsibility for the blast . . . On Friday night , the LOC_Event police released sketches of three suspects believed to be behind the blasts . All sketches were prepared on the basis of information received from eyewitness . . . Vikram Singh , Director General of Uttar Pradesh Police has said that new cycles could be likely clues for probe into blasts . . . `` Special Task Force will probe the case . We can not rule out anything and will soon give you the result , '' Singh said . . . According to unconfirmed reports , investigators have traced an email , which warned of the attack , to a cybercafe in East Delhi . . . LOC_Event Chief Minister Mayawati blamed the Central intelligence agencies for failing to provide any inputs about the blasts , and said that state agencies were not even asked to stay ` alert ' . . . The Home Ministry has already issued advisory to all States and Union Territories to step up vigilance and surveillance . . . Terror struck in LOC_Event on Friday when militants triggered near-simultaneous blasts in court premises killing 15 people , four of them lawyers , and injuring over 80 . . . Six bombs - three in LOC_Event , two in LOC_Event and one in LOC_Event - some planted on cycles , went off within a span of 15 minutes . . . The blasts came a week after the Uttar Pradesh police along with central security agencies busted a Jaish-e-Mohammed module , who wanted to target Rahul Gandhi . . . addthis_url = location.href ; addthis_title = document.title ; addthis_pub = ` vijaytech ' ; . . a36 ( ) ; . . . New Delhi : About an hour and a half after serial blasts rocked LOC_Event , Intelligence sources said little known outfit Indian Mujahideen have taken responsibility of the blast . . . Intelligence sources have told CNN-IBN that that a senior police official received an e-mail intimating him about who carried out the attack . . . Five bomb blasts rocked the cities of LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event in LOC_Event almost within minutes of each other on Friday , throwing the security apparatus into a tizzy . . . At least 12 people were killed and many others were injured when the blasts occurred . In LOC_Event , the explosion occured at a LOC_Event premises during the busy court hour . . . Over 2,000 people were present in the court premises when the bomb went off . Early reports said there could be heavy casualties as it occurred in a crowded spot . . . . Ammonium nitrate was used to make the bombs used in the Lucknow and Faizabad blasts , said Home ministry sources on Friday . The bombs were triggered off by timer devices . . . . . Details are awaited . . Terror struck LOC_Event on Friday when militants triggered near-simultaneous blasts in court premises in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event killing 15 people , four of them lawyers , and injuring over 80 . . . Six bombs -- three in Varansi , two in LOC_Event and one in LOC_Event -- some planted on cycles , went off within a span of 15 minutes in the crowded court complexes between 1310 hours and 1325 hours . . . Ammonium Nitrate and timer devices were used in triggering the blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event , sources said . . . Image : Policemen and onlookers gather at the blast site inside the LOC_Event civil court premises . . . Photographs : Getty Images . . . . . . . . Also read : The 23 terror modules in LOC_Event . . . . . . . . . . . . Next . Sushanta Talukdar . . Police suspect hand of adivasi outfit . . Guwahati : Five passengers of the 2423A Dibrugarh-Guwahati-Delhi Rajdhani Express were killed and four injured seriously in a bomb blast near the Chungajan railway station in Upper Assams Golaghat district late on Wednesday night . Police suspect that the blast could be the handiwork of the All Adivasi National Liberation Army -LRB- AANLA -RRB- . . . Inspector General of Police -LRB- Special Branch -RRB- Khagen Sharma told TheHindu that the needle of suspicion pointed to AANLA , which was active in LOC_Event and LOC_Event districts . . . On December 3 , the outfit triggered an explosion on the tracks between the Khatikhati and Bokajan railway stations in Karbi Anglong district , causing minor damage to the Dibrugarh-bound 5959 up Kamrup Express . . . Police also suspect its hand in a blast on the tracks between the Tangla and Harisinga railway stations in Udalguri district on December 7 . . . The group had threatened to target innocent civilians and the Tarun Gogoi-led governments men to avenge the brutalities on protesters during a procession taken out by the All Adivasi Students Association of Assam at the Beltola locality here on November 24 . . . LOC_Event District Superintendent of Police Pradip Chandra Saloi said the blast , suspected to have been caused by an improvised explosive device -LRB- IED -RRB- , occurred around 1 p.m. . A luggage van , containing passengers , took the entire impact of the blast , resulting in the death of five people and multiple injuries to four . . . The blast created a crater on the tracks and damaged two sleepers . The bodies of three victims were found lying outside the train and those of the two inside the luggage van . Police have sought forensic experts help to ascertain if the blast occurred on the tracks or if the IED was planted in the luggage van . Passengers of the luggage van said the train stopped only after they pulled the chain . However , the driver told the police that he did not stop the train immediately after the blast as he feared more attacks . . . Chief Public Relations Officer of Northeast Frontier Railway Trikalagya Rabha said the injured were taken to the Dimapur Civil Hospital . The train left for Guwahati from Chungajan at 6 a.m. after the luggage van was detached . It arrived here at 10 a.m. and started for Delhi at 11.45 a.m. , he added . Guwahati , December 13 Five persons were killed and four others seriously injured when a bomb explosion rocked 2423 Down Dibrugarh-Guwahati-New Delhi Rajdhani Express between Naojan and Chungajan Railway stations of LOC_Event district , about 282 km from here , at around 1:10 am on Thursday . . . The impact of the explosion left a crater of 1.8 m diameter and 82 cm depth on the track , besides causing damage to two rails of the track . LOC_Event district SP Prodip Saloi suspected hand of All Adivasi National Liberation Army ( AANLA ) in the explosion that rocked the elite train . He said an expert team was investigating into the blast . . . The AANLA , an Adivasi militant group , was floated in 2005 . The Assam police alleged that AANLA enjoyed patronage of bigger rebel groups , including the Naga rebel group NSCN-IM and the banned ULFA . . . The outfit is very active in bordering areas of LOC_Event and Karbi Anglong districts of LOC_Event . . . The north-east Frontier Railway chief public relations officer , Trikalagya Rabha informed that the deceased were identified as Satyaprakash Rai ( 45 ) , Sudama Rai ( 45 ) , Lakshman Rai ( 44 ) , A.K. Sah ( 20 ) and D. Prasad ( 19 ) . . . The four seriously inured persons were identified as Lakshman Sah , Tapas Roy , Amarendra Singh and B. Chowdhury . They have been sent to Dimapur Civil Hospital in Nagaland . The toll may go up as injured were stated to be in critical condition . . . All these passengers were travelling in the luggage van of the Rajdhani Express from Dibrugarh to LOC_Event , the NFR official said . . . The Railway claims that luggage van in the train is partially utilised to accommodate passengers travelling between Dibrugarh to LOC_Event . . . Initially , the explosion was suspected to have occurred inside the luggage van of the train . But later it was ascertained to have occurred on the track . . . The loco driver didnt stop the train immediately after the blast that occurred in a forest area . . . The train stopped at the next station at Chungajan , about five km from the blast site , which later resumed its onward journey to LOC_Event at 6:45 am . . . Other passengers travelling in the affected luggage van were shifted to a 3-tier AC bogie . . . The train later reached LOC_Event around 11 am before it proceeds to the final destination , New Delhi . Top railway and security officials had rushed to the site immediately after the blast . The Railway technical staff have already repaired the track at the blast site . . . An investigation has been launched into the blast that has affected the high security train . There has been a practice to scan the track in insurgency hit areas of the state before the Rajdhani Express is allowed to pass through . . . The 2423 Down Rajdhani Express leaves Dibrugarh in eastern LOC_Event with five coaches , including a non-AC luggage van at 8:15 pm , and reaches LOC_Event at 5:55 am next morning . . . It leaves LOC_Event for New Delhi at 7 am in the morning . The train was running four hours late on Thursday because of the blast . The blast took place in a compartment attached to the LOC_Event of the Dibrugarh-Guwahati-Delhi Rajdhani Express , two km ahead of Sungajan railway station at 1.06 am , North-East Frontier Railway CPRO Trikal Rabha said . . . Five passengers died on the spot and the four critically injured were admitted to a hospital at Dimapur in neighbouring Nagaland . The five others who received minor injuries were discharged after first aid . . . The dead were identified as S P Prasad ( 24 ) , A K Jha ( 30 ) , Laxman Rai ( 20 ) , Sudama Rai ( 45 ) , Dineshwar Prasad ( 19 ) . . . The critically injured are Amarnath Singh , Tapas Rai , Laxman Jha and Pradip Choudhury . . . The 30 other passengers in the compartment were accommodated in the three-tier AC compartment of the train that continued with its onward journey to Delhi via Guwahati at six am , Rabha said . . . The explosion also damaged the luggage van just behind the engine and two sleepers of the track , he said . . . The 2423A dn is the link train of the main 2423 dn Rajdhani Express starting from Guwahati , the CPRO said . Train movement on the section has been restored . . . Security forces suspect that the explosive was planted in a suitcase inside the luggage van of the train at its starting point at Dibrugarh station as the train halts for only two minutes at the next destination Mariani and does not stop at the next railway station Sungajan , thereby leaving no scope for the militants to alight after planting the bomb . . . Bomb experts were trying to ascertain the nature of the bomb as to whether it was an improvised explosive devise or some other type of explosive , police sources said . . . There was also an intelligence report of the Adivasi National Liberation Army planning to attack trains in that area . . . In support of the Adivasis ' demand for inclusion in the Scheduled Tribe list , the ANLA had recently threatened to intensify their subversive activities , particularly targeting trains . Gumla , Dec 18 : The Assam Police were today allowed to take in their remand four of the five activists of the All Adivasi National Liberation Army ( AANLA ) , who were accused in the 2007 Rajdhani Express blast in LOC_Event . . . The courts of first class judicial magistrate Sidharth Mandal ( three cases ) and register Ashok Kumar ( one case ) allowed the Assam Police to take them on one month ` s remand . One of the accused , Roni Lakra ` s case has not yet come up . . . In a joint operation by Jharkhand and Assam Police yesterday led to the arrest of Mangra Oraon alias David , the outfit ` s self-styled commander-in-chief , John Kujur alias Deepak , Arjun Oraon alias Albert , Roni Lakra and Munna Naik . David , who hails from Assam ` s Golaghat , and faces seven murder charges in Jharkhand ` s Gumla and Simdega , was wanted by both the states for the last several years . . . The raids were made after Assam Police got a tip-off that the extremists who had triggered blast in the Rajdhani Express on December 13 , 2007 were in Gumla . . . Bureau Report . At least five persons were dead and four others injured when a bomb exploded in the 2423 A Guwahati-Delhi Rajdhani Express in LOC_Event early on Thursday morning . . . LOC_Event , Dec 13 : At least five persons were dead and four others injured when a bomb exploded in the 2423 A Guwahati-Delhi Rajdhani Express in LOC_Event early on Thursday morning . . . The explosion took place between Naojan and Chungajan in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event District at around 1.00 a.m. . . According to initial reports , the bomb was planted inside one of the compartments and not on the train track . There was partial damage to the tracks with just two sleepers affected . . . The train , which was on its way from Dibrugarh to Delhi , resumed its journey at around 6.00 a.m. after passengers in the affected van were shifted to a 3-tier AC bogie . . . The injured have been rushed to Dimapur . Reports suggest that the death toll could rise . . . This is the first bomb blast on the Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani , although the train has been targeted once before in June 2006 . . . addthis_url = location.href ; addthis_title = document.title ; addthis_pub = ` vijaytech ' ; . . a36 ( ) ; . . . The Blast Investigation Operation team of the National Security Guard ( NSG ) will arrive here today to assist in the investigation of the Rajdhani Express blast . . . LOC_Event , Dec 14 : The Blast Investigation Operation team of the National Security Guard ( NSG ) will arrive here today to assist in the investigation of the Rajdhani Express blast . . . The team will look for ballistic and forensic clues at the site of the incident , a spokesperson of the Home Ministry , which is closely monitoring the situation . . . Condemning the blast , Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil has said , `` I convey my sympathies to those killed and pray for speedy recovery of those injured in the incident . '' . . `` People of our country understand the designs of terrorists and will not be cowed down by such incidents . The State Governments and Railways will take necessary steps to provide protection to passengers and see that such incidents do not recur , '' he added . . . Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta had also spoken to the Assam Chief Secretary . The latter has briefed Gupta about the steps taken in the wake of the blast . . . Army and security forces have intensified operations against militants in the LOC_Event districts after the blast . . . Security measures on the railway tracks have also been beefed up across the State . . . At least five persons were dead and four others injured when a bomb exploded in the 2423 A Guwahati-Delhi Rajdhani Express in LOC_Event on Thursday morning . . . The explosion took place between Naojan and Chungajan in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event District at around 1.00 a.m. . . This is the first bomb blast on the Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani , although the train has been targeted once before in June 2006 . . . addthis_url = location.href ; addthis_title = document.title ; addthis_pub = ` vijaytech ' ; . . a36 ( ) ; . . . Five persons were killed and four others seriously injured when a bomb exploded on board the New Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express as it passed through Assam 's Golaghat district early today . . . The blast took place around 1 am in a coach next to the engine as the train moved from Naojan to Chongajan railway station . The Adivasi National Liberation Army -LRB- ANLA -RRB- owned up for the attack . Earlier , officials too had suspected the outfit which has of late been active in the region . . . A National Security Guards team will visit Assam tomorrow to assist in the investigation , a Home Ministry official said in Delhi . Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to the Assam Chief Secretary to take stock of the situation . . . `` Preliminary reports suggest it could be the handiwork of the ANLA which had announced recently it would indulge in acts of sabotage , '' said Khagen Sharma , Assam 's IGP -LRB- Special Branch -RRB- . The ANLA is believed to have a cadre strength of 70-80 . . . Railway PRO Trikalagya Rabha said the blast took place in a non-AC compartment behind the engine and it was so powerful that it left a crater 1.8 metres wide and 82 cms deep on the railway track . Two bodies were found inside the coach while three lay by the tracks . . . There were 40 people in the coach , known as an SLR van , half of which is used for luggage . At least five persons were killed and four others seriously injured when a bomb blast rocked the New Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express near Sungajan Railway station of Assam 's Golaghat district at 1 : 15 am . on Thursday.The police suspect All Adivasi National Liberation Army ( AANLA ) 's involvement in the explosion that rocked the high-security elite train that was travelling from Dibrugarh in eastern Assam to New Delhi via Guwahati.A spokesman of the Northeast Frontier Railway ( NFR ) headquarters at Maligaon said the deceased were identified as Satyaprakash Rai ( 45 ) , Sudama Rai ( 45 ) , Lakshman Rai ( 44 ) , A K Sah ( 20 ) and D Prasad ( 19 ) . The four seriously inured persons were admitted to the Dimapur Civil Hospital in Nagaland . The toll may go up as injured were stated to be in critical condition.All passengers were traveling bonafide in the luggage van of the Rajdhani Express from Dibrugarh to Guwahati , the NFR official said . . . The Railway claims that luggage van in the train is utilised to accommodate passengers travelling between Dibrugarh and Guwahati.Initially , the explosion was suspected to have occurred on the LOC_Event . But later it was found out to have occurred on the tracks . . . The train stopped at the next station at Bokajan in Karbi Anglong district immediately after the blast . It resumed the onward journey from Bokajan at 6:45 a.m. after shedding the damaged van there.The train , now running four hours late , is expected to reach Guwahati around 11 a.m. before it proceeds to New Delhi . Other passengers travelling in the affected luggage van were shifted to a 3-tier AC bogie . Top railway and security officials had rushed to the site immediately after the blast . The Railway techninal stafs have already repaired the track at the blast site.An investigation has been launched . There has been a practice to scan the track in insurgency-hit areas of the state before the Rajdhani Express is allowed to pass through . At least five persons were killed and four others seriously injured when a bomb blast rocked the New Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express near LOC_Event Railway station of LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district at 1 : 15 am . on Thursday.The police suspect All Adivasi National Liberation Army -LRB- AANLA -RRB- 's involvement in the explosion that rocked the high-security elite train that was travelling from Dibrugarh in eastern LOC_Event to New Delhi via Guwahati.A spokesman of the Northeast Frontier Railway -LRB- NFR -RRB- headquarters at Maligaon said the deceased were identified as Satyaprakash Rai -LRB- 45 -RRB- , Sudama Rai -LRB- 45 -RRB- , Lakshman Rai -LRB- 44 -RRB- , A K Sah -LRB- 20 -RRB- and D Prasad -LRB- 19 -RRB- . The four seriously inured persons were admitted to the Dimapur Civil Hospital in Nagaland . The toll may go up as injured were stated to be in critical condition.All passengers were traveling bonafide in the luggage van of the Rajdhani Express from Dibrugarh to Guwahati , the NFR official said . . . The Railway claims that luggage van in the train is utilised to accommodate passengers travelling between Dibrugarh and Guwahati.Initially , the explosion was suspected to have occurred on the luggage van . But later it was found out to have occurred on the tracks . . . The train stopped at the next station at Bokajan in Karbi Anglong district immediately after the blast . It resumed the onward journey from Bokajan at 6:45 a.m. after shedding the damaged van there.The train , now running four hours late , is expected to reach Guwahati around 11 a.m. before it proceeds to New Delhi . Other passengers travelling in the affected luggage van were shifted to a 3-tier AC bogie . Top railway and security officials had rushed to the site immediately after the blast . The Railway techninal stafs have already repaired the track at the blast site.An investigation has been launched . There has been a practice to scan the track in insurgency-hit areas of the state before the Rajdhani Express is allowed to pass through . . GUWAHATI : Five people were killed and four others injured in a bomb blast in a Delhi-bound Rajdhani Express in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district early on Thursday morning . . . The explosion , carried out by suspected militants , happened in the luggage van of the 2423A Dibrugarh-Guwahati-Delhi Rajdhani between Naujan and Sugajan at around 1 am , North Eastern railway CPRO Trikal Rabha said . . . Five people died on the spot while the four injured were rushed to Golaghat Civil hospital . The luggage van was damaged as well as small portion of track . . . The train resumed its journey at around 6am after passengers in the affected van were shifted to a 3 tier AC boggie . Top railway officials have rushed to the site . View PhotosNews GalleryGuwahati , Dec 13 : Suspected Adivasi militants blasted a powerful bomb in the Delhi bound LOC_Event at LOC_Event near Dimapur , killing at least 5 and injuring more than 20 persons early this morning . . . According to NF Railway sources , the blast occurred at 0130 hours in the first compartment , after the engine , which was carrying railway staff and lot of illegal passengers.The blast did not damage the track and the driver managed to take the train to nearest Bokajan station after the blast . Condition of three other passengers are slated to be very critical . . . The passengers of the train were shifted to another train . The movement of the train in the sector has not been affected , the source said . . . . NEW DELHI : In yet another shocking incident five persons were killed and four injured when a bomb exploded in the 2423A Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express in the wee hours of Thursday . . . According to sources , the bomb exploded at around 2 am near LOC_Event in LOC_Event when the blast occured . The train was between Nuajan and Chauan stations . Preliminary investigations suggest that the bomb was planted on the tracks . . . However , the exact number of casualties has not been known yet as the incident occurred in wee hours of Thursday morning and the toll may go up . . . Meanwhile , government machinery has rushed to the spot and assessing the situation . The railways have also stepped up operations to rescue the passengers stranded in the train . Vinay Kumar . . Centre promises all help to Rajasthan in dealing with the extraordinary situation . . President , Prime Minister , Sonia Gandhi condemn the blasts . . Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta speaks to Rajasthan Chief Secretary . . NEW DELHI : In the wake of the serial blasts in LOC_Event on Tuesday , the Union government has put all metros , including the National Capital and two-tier cities , on a nationwide high alert . . . A team of the Union Home Ministry left for Jaipur to assess the situation and undertake a comprehensive security review with the State government . . . Minister of State for Home Sriprakash Jaiswal , while strongly condemning the blasts , said the Centre would provide all possible assistance to the Rajasthan government to carry out investigations and get to the bottom of the deep-rooted conspiracy behind the terror attack . . . Mr. Jaiswal told journalists that it was a well-orchestrated and well-attempted plot to carry out terror strikes in the heart of the pink city . . . A complete security review would be undertaken by the Home Ministry and the government would give a united and strong response to such nefarious designs of terrorists . . . Mr. Jaiswal did not rule out the use of RDX in the LOC_Event blasts . He said the casualties could go up as more injured were being rushed to hospitals . . . President Pratibha Patil , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Home Minister Shivraj Patil condemned the blasts . Ms. Gandhi described the incidents as a crime against humanity . . . Mr. Patil is on a two-day visit to Meghalaya and Nagaland and he is being informed of the situation . . . Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to the Rajasthan Chief Secretary and is awaiting further details . . . Sources in the internal security and intelligence set-up said Rajasthan was never on the terror radar network and only on Monday was an IPL cricket match played in a city stadium , which saw a large turnout . . . The sources did not rule out the existence of sleeper cells of terrorist outfits such as the Bangladesh-based HuJI , which were waiting to get activated with the help of local sympathisers and supporters and strike in crowded areas , causing a maximum number of casualties . . . Security and intelligence agencies said a squad from the bomb detection unit of the National Security Guard -LRB- NSG -RRB- was rushing to LOC_Event to carry out forensic investigations . Some of the bombs were said to have been placed on cycles and packed with shrapnel and some low-intensity explosives , the sources said . . . About seven months ago , the holy city of LOC_Event , nearly 120 km from LOC_Event , was rocked by a bomb blast and the Dargah of Khwaja Garib Nawaz has since been fortified . Intelligence inputs this time did not indicate the possibility of LOC_Event being high on the strike list of terror organisations , the sources said . . . Tight security in Delhi . . Devesh K. Pandey reports : . . In Delhi , Deputy Commissioners of Police were directed to take preventive measures and increase vigilance . Deployment was stepped up at religious places , markets and places of tourist attraction such as the Akshardham temple , India Gate , the Red Fort , the Lotus Temple and the ISKCON temple . . . Policemen were asked to check vehicles entering the city from the neighbouring States , particularly from Rajasthan . . . Police conducted checks at hotels and guesthouses in the Walled City area and some parts of South Delhi . The Delhi Fire Service and hospitals were put on alert and bomb detection squads pressed into action to carry out anti-sabotage checks at vital installations . . . Police personnel posted at railway stations were directed to keep a close watch on suspicious activities . Security at all the metro railway stations was also beefed up . The police , in coordination with the Central Industrial Security Force , reviewed the security arrangements at the Delhi airport . Besides , patrolling was intensified in security sensitive areas . . . If required , we will extend all possible help to our counterparts in LOC_Event in conducting investigations into the blasts , said a senior police officer . Devesh K. Pandey . . NEW DELHI : An e-mail sent to the media on Wednesday , claiming responsibility for the LOC_Event blasts , has been traced to a cyber cafe at LOC_Event in Ghaziabad . The mail sender has threatened to carry out more such strikes in different parts of the country . . . The cafe owner and an employee were picked up for questioning by the Anti-Terrorist Squad of the Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday night . During questioning , cafe owner Madhukar Mishra said the e-mail sender brought a compact disc along with him . He , however , could not give details about that persons identity . . . The police seized the computers hard disk . . . The mail , sent through the ID guru_alhindi_jaipur . . @yahoo . co.uk by an outfit identifying itself as Indian Mujahideen , had a video attachment . It showed a bag , purportedly containing a bomb , kept on the carrier of a cycle near the LOC_Event . Sunny Sebastian . . Three more sketches released ; genuineness of e-mail doubted . . LOC_Event : Investigating agencies have expressed doubts about the genuineness of an e-mail and an attached video clip sent to the media on Wednesday by Indian Mujahideen , claiming responsibility for the LOC_Event blasts on Tuesday in which 64 people have died . . . On Thursday , the police here released three more sketches of suspects involved in the blasts continuing their hunt for the terrorists . One such sketch was released on Wednesday . . . The Rajasthan government constituted a Special Investigation Team -LRB- SIT -RRB- to probe the blasts . It also announced the formation of a Special Task Force to fight terror . . . Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje said the video footage could be an attempt to mislead the probe . She said there were discrepancies in the way the bags containing bombs were placed on the cycles used in the blasts and the one shown on the video . The clip showed the frame number -LRB- 129489 -RRB- of a cycle parked near the Kotwali Police Station . . . Ms. Raje said : . . We are making further investigations into the matter . I fear I can not divulge much at this juncture of the probe . In fact , we are in the middle of a war . . . Todays terrorists are not thieves or burglars ; they are well connected and use most sophisticated communication systems . The whole operation was carried out with considerable skill , indicating that we are fighting a very formidable enemy . . . Superintendent of Police -LRB- North -RRB- and member of the SIT Raghavendra Suhasa told TheHindu that the new sketches were those of the persons belonging to the age group of 18 to 25 . They have different complexions . . . Though the blasts were similar to the ones that took place in Uttar Pradesh , it was too early to talk about the involvement of the Harkat-ul-Jihadi-e-Islam in the blasts , he said , adding that in all nine blasts took place and one bomb was defused . . . Denying any arrest , he said : Nobody has been arrested or detained so far . He also refuted reports that a woman was questioned . That is a rumour . No woman has been questioned . . . No breakthrough yet . . Vinay Kumar reports from New Delhi : . . The Union Cabinet was briefed on the blasts by the National Security Adviser -LRB- NSA -RRB- M. K. Narayanan and Cabinet Secretary K. M. Chandrasekhar on Thursday . . . Finance Minister P. Chidambaram told reporters after the Cabinet meeting that the NSA and the Cabinet Secretary briefed them about the investigations . The meeting was chaired by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh . . . Asked if any breakthrough was achieved , he said : I dont think we have reached a stage where we can say we have achieved a breakthrough . . . The Cabinet was also informed about the security and intelligence agencies efforts to see a definite pattern in the blasts with those that rocked Hyderabad and Lucknow in the recent past . . . Asked about Ms. Rajes observation that her State would not allow communal harmony to be jeopardised , he said the Centre and the State ad an equal responsibility to maintain law and order . New Delhi : The United States has strongly condemned the vicious act of terrorism in LOC_Event . . . There can be no possible justification for the murderous attack on innocent people , U.S. Ambassador to India David Mulford said in a statement here on Tuesday night . He extended deepest sympathies to the families of the victims . . . In Islamabad , Pakistan Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani strongly condemned the bomb blasts . Pakistan condemns all acts of terrorism and reaffirms its firm commitment to fight this scourge together with the international community , he said in a message . . . Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi expressed his condolences and sympathies to the families of the victims . . . Muttahida Qaumi Movement chief Altaf Hussain said those involved in such attacks were not human . Through such activities , terrorists were trying to disturb the peace of the region , said an MQM statement . PTI . The death toll from the serial bomb blasts in Jaipur rose to more than 80 people today , as police imposed a day-long curfew across the heritage city . The seven explosions saw busy LOC_Event , a LOC_Event and a LOC_Event covered in blood and left more than 200 people were seriously injured . LOC_Event is the capital of the western desert state of Rajasthan and is one of India 's premier tourist spots , known for its pink sandstone palaces . The bombs , although crude , were packed with pieces or iron pipe and ball bearings designed to splinter upon the blast and then maim and kill victims . No one has claimed responsibility for the explosions . Although the attacks hit Muslim businesses , suspicion has fallen on the banned Harkat-ul-Jehadi Islamia ( HuJI ) , a Islamist group said to be operating from Bangladesh . HuJI has been blamed for a string of attacks in India in recent years . Earlier India 's junior home minister had appeared to point the finger at Pakistan , India 's traditional rival . `` One ca n't rule out the involvement of a foreign power , '' said Sriprakash Jaiswal , a euphemism often used for Pakistan . Security is fast becoming a political issue in India and the country 's prime minister , Manmohan Singh , called an emergency cabinet meeting today . The nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party , which runs the state of Rajasthan , called a strike in protest at the bombings . Police in Jaipur imposed a day-long curfew in the city , an apparent attempt to avert clashes between Hindus and Muslims . Most shops remained shut and there was an increased police presence on the streets . In the hospitals it was clear that both communities lost lives , as television pictures showed family members searching for loved ones in the morgues . AK Jain , a senior state police officer , told the Associated Press his force had questioned nearly a dozen people but had not yet found any clues as to who was involved . `` There have been no arrests so far , '' he said . . . Newspapers pointed out that the first blast was near a temple dedicated to the Hindu monkey god Hanuman , whose divinity was celebrated yesterday . The temple was crowded with people offering prayers on their way home from work . Another bomb exploded near the city 's LOC_Event , a popular tourist attraction . As the tourist season ended in March , however , it appeared that no foreigners were caught in the bombings . . . . NEW DELHI : The LOC_Event terror attack evoked strong global outrage with countries condemning the blasts and pledging support to India in the fight against terrorism . US ambassador David Mulford , who met foreign secretary Shiv Shankar Menon , offered his country 's help in the investigations into the serial blasts . `` We have offered our assistance in analysing and understanding the aftermath of the tragedy . We told the government that we are willing to help them in any way we can , '' Mr Mulford said after the meeting . . . US state department spokesman Sean McCormack condemned the blasts and said that there was no justification for the murder of innocents . `` The United States stands with the government and people of India in their ongoing fight to eliminate the scourge of terrorism , and to ensure an open , democratic , peaceful , and prosperous society , '' he said . . . Saying that there could be no justification for this kind of violence that took the lives of innocent victims , Britain joined other countries in condemning those behind the blasts . `` Bombings in LOC_Event have shown again the horrific destruction which terrorism brings , '' British foreign minister David Miliband said . . . `` There can never be any justification for acts of indiscriminate violence such as these , and I utterly condemn those who have perpetrated today 's attacks , '' he said . He further said the UK , which has experienced serial blasts in 2005 , would continue to stand with India terrorism . . . Pakistan , which has become the breeding ground of terrorists , also condemned the blasts . Pakistan prime minister Yousuf Raza Gilani said his country `` reaffirms its firm commitment to fight this scourge together with the international community '' . And Afghan president Hamid Karzai , who was recently the target of an assassination attempt by terrorists , said that Afghanistan understood India 's pain . . . Countries like Australia also condemned the terrorists attack and also issued a travel advisory to its citizen to exercise `` a high degree of caution because of the high risk of terrorist activity by militant groups '' . The advisory further said that Mumbai , New Delhi , Chennai and Kolkata could be the targets of terrorist attacks and , more specifically , that terrorists are planning to conduct suicide attacks in Mumbai or New Delhi . . . At the same time Australia said that the `` the attack on a democratic , tolerant , open society is repugnant '' and hoped that the perpetrators are brought quickly to justice . `` Australian and Indian law enforcement agencies continue to work together in our common fight against terrorism , '' a statement said . . . Another country that has been at the receiving end of terrorists , Israel , also joined the chorus of condemnation saying that it understood the `` enormity of the tragedy . '' `` Israel extends its deepest condolences to the families of the victims and its wishes for the speedy recovery of those injured , '' said a release from the Israeli embassy . The embassy further said that it was up to the community to act in a `` concerted and unified manner '' to fight terrorism . . . Japan was also quick to react and said that it was `` deeply shocked '' by the serial blasts and sent condolences to the families of those killed in the blasts . Japan hoped that LOC_Event would overcome the tragedy and said that it would continue cooperation with India to fight against terrorism . . . And the Canadian minister of foreign affairs Maxime Bernier also expressed solidarity with LOC_Event and said that his country would cooperate closely with LOC_Event to fight terrorism `` Canada and LOC_Event have a shared commitment to freedom , democracy , human rights and the rule of law . Among our mutual priorities is close cooperation to fight terrorism , '' he said . JAIPUR/UDAIPUR : Illegal Bangladeshi migrants in LOC_Event will be identified in 30 days and could be deported as they came under the scanner of the state government after the serial blasts while a hotelier claimed he saw one of the suspects in Udaipur two days before the attack . With the Bangladesh-based HuJI being suspected to be behind the blasts , state PWD Minister Rajendra Singh Rathore said the state government is on a hunt for Bangladeshis with suspected criminal background . Forty such Bangladeshi nationals have been rounded up so far and are being interrogated , he said . Eight of them were detained in Ajmer . All District Collectors and Superintendents of Police have been directed to complete within 30 days the process of identifying Bangladeshi migrants living with or without voter ID cards and/or ration cards and get them verified , Rathore said . The procedures for deporting the identified illegal nationals could then be started , he said . The process has begun everywhere in the state , he added . The State 's Principal Home Secretary discussed with his central counterpart on Friday the option of deporting illegally staying Bangladeshi nationals , he added . The owner of SamorBagh restaurant in Udaipur Kamal Joshi was interrogated by police after he claimed on Friday that a person bearing resemblance to one of the sketches of suspects released on Thursday night was seen along with a woman in his restaurant on Sunday evening . JAIPUR : Terror Tuesday was not the first time LOC_Event was targeted . In 1993 similar serial bomb blasts were averted when alert intelligence officials foiled a bid to set off explosions in the Walled City area by arresting four persons with bomb materials . The accused are currently at Ajmer jail . Sources said a team of the Jaipur police has already been dispatched to the jail and officials have questioned the accused who were arrested in September 1993 when they were trying to plant tiffin bombs in Chandpol area of the Walled City , the same place were two blasts last Tuesday left more than 16 dead . Officials in the Rajasthan police confirmed that sleuths are probing possibilities of a link between the foiled serial blasts of 1993 and the May 13 attacks that killed 63 and injured hundreds . They , however , were tight-lipped and refused to divulge details of the interrogations and whether this resulted in any fresh leads . The perpetrators of the foiled 1993 attack had come from Mumbai and Delhi and aroused suspicion that they had linkages with the Mumbai serial blasts of March 12 , 1993 . Both LOC_Event and LOC_Event had witnessed riots after the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992 . Though both cities had been targets for terrorists , Mumbai was the first to have been hit when serial bombs rocked the commercial capital on March 12 , 1993 killing more than 250 . A close surveillance on terror modules in Mumbai and LOC_Event had later helped in cracking the LOC_Event terror bid , planned within months of the LOC_Event attack . Ajai Sahni , editor of South Asia Terrorism Portal -LRB- SATP -RRB- and an expert keeping tabs on terrorist activities in India , said Rajasthan , and Jaipur in particular , had always been on the map of terrorists . He says three terrorists cells had been busted in the state in April 2005 . People apprehended were found to have links with the Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- , an outfit which has now begun to regularly provide footsoldiers for international terror outfits such as HuJI and LeT . Rajasthan government has approached Sahni 's institute for sharing of expertise on terrorist activities . Senior officials of the state government had spoken to former super cop K P S Gill in this regard and sought his assistance in tackling terrorism . SIMI 's presence in Jaipur and other parts of Rajasthan is not denied by the police either . Rajasthan 's DGP A S Gill , while speaking to TOI , had said that there are SIMI activists in Jaipur and the police had been keeping a close watch on them for some time . However , he had categorically denied any linkages of SIMI so far in the Tuesday 's blasts . The Tuesday 's blasts were orchestrated in a manner to inflict maximum casualties . The first two blasts occurred at LOC_Event and as the crowd ran towards Johri Bazar another two blasts near the LOC_Event blocked the exit point pushing back the panicky crowd towards Tripolia Bazar and Chandpol area where subsequent blasts caused maximum fatalities . NEW DELHI : The Union Home Ministry tonight sounded a nation-wide alert following the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event killing over two dozen and injuring scores . ` The Home Ministry is keeping a close watch on the situation in the Pink City , ' a senior MHA official said , adding that an alert has been sounded in all states . Senior Home Ministry officials , including Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta , immediately got in touch with the state government and asked them to beef up security arrangements . Terrorists set off six bomb blasts at crowded markets in the Walled City within a span of ten minutes killing and wounding several people . MHA spokesman said Home Minister Shivraj Patil , who was on a two-day visit to Northeast , condemned the blasts . He was also in touch with his ministry officials . Bomb data squad of the elite National Security Guards has been rushed to the Pink City . NEW DELHI : About 400 personnel of the Rapid action Force -LRB- RAF -RRB- have been rushed to LOC_Event following the serial blasts in the pink city which claimed 60 lives and left 150 injured . ` We have rushed four companies of the RAF to the pink city after the blasts ' , CRPF spokesperson Ajay Chaturvedi said . Two of these companies are from Delhi and two from Aligargh , he said . New Delhi : The serial blasts in LOC_Event that killed 63 people and injured over 150 on Tuesday night sent shockwaves across the country . Alert was sounded across various states and security was stepped up in all major metros and tourist hotspots . Given below is a wrap-up : . . Goa : Night vigil on . . Panaji : The Goa police declared alert in the tourist state and stepped-up security in the crowded areas . . . Inspector General of Police Kishan Kumar said all police stations in Goa have been asked to conduct strict patrolling , especially at crowded places such as Goan beaches , railway stations , airport at Dabolim , bus stands , market areas and others . . . In order to avoid risk , the alert declared last night will continue for few days in the state . '' I have also directed all police stations to get hold of suspicious persons , '' Kumar added . . . Bihar : Security up at vital installations . . Patna : A high alert was sounded in Bihar and all police stations have been put on maximum alert with specific instructions to officials to tighten vigil around places of religious importance , Additional Director General ( Law and Order ) Anil Sinha told PTI . . . The government railway police too has been alerted and security stepped up around vital installations , including properties of railway , he said . . . Karnataka : Poll-bound and on alert . . Bangalore : Police in Karnataka have stepped up security throughout the state as a precautionary measure . . . Police said a vigil is being maintained at busy areas , railway stations , bus stations , markets , malls and also Bangalore airport . . . Last Saturday , a bomb exploded in a Hubli court . None were injured in the incident . . . UP : Terror flashback for Varanasi . . Varanasi : A red alert has been sounded in the temple city with increased deployment . . . A red alert has been declared in Varanasi and deployment at sensitive places has been enhanced , DIG , Police , S N Sabat , told PTI . . . He said checking of vehicles at sensitive places has been intensified and extra forces have been deployed in and around the important temples and vital installations . . . `` Though there is no specific threat of any terror attack in the city we are leaving nothing to chance '' , he said . . . Uttar pradesh Home department has directed all District Magistrates to keep a close watch in their respective areas and gear up all intelligence machinery . . . State Home secretary Mahesh Kumar Gupta asked the DMs to put in place a drill for security checkup . . . Directive to this effect have been sent to all District Magistrates . . . Tamil Nadu : All entry points blocked . . Chennai : Security has been tightened in Chennai and police said that vehicles entering the city would be thoroughly checked . Places where people converge in large numbers like railway stations and bus stands have been brought under security cover . . . People moving around in a suspicious manner would be questioned , they added . . . . LOC_Event : A restaurant owner from Udaipur is being questioned by police after he claimed to have seen one of the suspected terrorists , whose sketch was released , along with a woman two days ahead of Tuesday 's serial blasts here . Meanwhile , eight Bangladeshis were detained in Ajmer in connection with the blasts . The owner of Samor Bagh restaurant in Udaipur , Kamal Joshi told the police on Friday that a person resembling the sketch , released last night , was seen in his restaurant on Sunday evening . He said that the man was accompanied by a young woman and both of them came to the restaurant at about 4 pm on Sunday . The woman entered the restaurant wearing a saree but changed into a salwar kameez before leaving with the man , Joshi said , according to the police . They did not take anything in the restaurant , he said . The in-charge of Surajpole police station Himmat Singh said investigations were on to check the movement of the duo in the town . Rajasthan Police has also detained eight Bangladeshis near the famous Sufi shrine of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti in Ajmer after they were found to be moving under suspicious circumstances . All the eight are being questioned , Superintendent of Police -LRB- Ajmer -RRB- Anand Srivastava said . LOC_Event : Highly-explosive RDX was used in the serial blasts that rocked LOC_Event on Tuesday , a senior police official said on Wednesday as tell-tale signs pointed towards the involvement of Bangladesh - based Harkat-ul-Jehadi Islami in the serial blasts . -LRB- Watch -RRB- The explosive devices were fitted with timers and planted on cycles , a modus operandi similar to the one used in last year 's blasts on court premises in Uttar Pradesh in which HuJI was involved , police said . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Eight persons including a man injured in the blasts and a rickshaw puller are being questioned , they said , noting that seven teams of Rajasthan police and intelligence branch have begun the probe into the blasts . -LRB- Watch -RRB- ` It was a cent per cent terrorist attack on the pattern of blasts on the court premises in UP in November last year . RDX was used in containers tagged to cycles along with timer devices , ' Additional Director General of Police -LRB- Crime -RRB- A K Jain said . An examination of the blast sites indicated that the bombs were filled with ball bearings and small iron pieces to act as splinters , sources close to the investigation said . HuJI may have been able to form sleeper cells in Rajasthan , they said , adding that a proper investigation into the blast at a sufi shrine in Ajmer last year could have been a pointer . ` We have collected sufficient evidence from the places of the blasts . They are being analysed by our technical experts , ' Superintendent of Police , LOC_Event , Raghvendra Suhasa said , noting that one unexploded bomb , found from the blast site , has been defused . Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta told mediapersons in New Delhi that ` our priority now apart from vigilance and being on the alert will be to get hold of the people responsible ' for the blasts . Sources said the blasts triggered in areas close to two Hanuman temples in the old city could have been aimed at disturbing communal peace . . . Terrorists struck for the first time in LOC_Event triggering seven blasts in a span of 12 minutes on Tuesday night in crowded market areas and near a LOC_Event in the walled city leaving at least 60 killed and 200 injured . . . ` According to the information I have received 60 people have died and 150 have been injured , ' said Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje , who rushed back to the state capital from Jodhpur . . . Bangladesh-based Harkut-ul-Jehadi Islami is suspected to be behind the blasts that has taken the state authorities by surprise , home ministry sources said . The sources ruled out the use of RDX in the carefully orchestrated low-intensity explosions which were suspected to have been set off from cycles in areas including near the famous LOC_Event which are frequented by domestic and foreign tourists . The blasts rocked LOC_Event , where large number of devotees turned up at a LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event -- all located within a two-km radius in the old city . Inspector General -LRB- LOC_Event -RRB- Pankaj Singh said in all there were seven blasts , a couple of them in the same area . . . Police said one explosive was defused by bomb disposal squad near the LOC_Event . . . Blood was splattered at the scene of the blasts which tossed some of the victims several feet up in the sky . . . The Centre rushed bomb data squad of the National Security Guards to LOC_Event . LOC_Event Director General of Police A S Gill said the blasts were ` obviously a terror attack . ' . . Doctors said many of the victims had shrapnel injuries . They feared that the toll may go up further . . . Rapid Action Force personnel were deployed in LOC_Event to help deal with the situation as security was beefed up . One of the blasts took place in a car and another near a handloom shop in LOC_Event area of the city , home department sources said . Most of the injured were rushed to Sawai Man Singh hospital . Bodies of several victims lay strewn in the corridors of hospitals . The blasts triggered a near-stampede situation at the blast sites were crammed with peak-hour shoppers and panic-stricken people ran helter skelter in search of safety . The LOC_Event at LOC_Event was crowded with worshippers being a Tuesday . . . Indian Premier League Commisioner Lalit Modi said said the league match scheduled to be played in LOC_Event on Saturday will go on as planned.Image : The scene near the blast site at the LOC_Event in ChandpoleReportage : PTI | Photograph : Rajesh KumawatAlso Read : Trapped in Terror 's WakeIndia 's counter-terrorism strategyTerrorism : LOC_Event 's unending warISI continues to train terror groups : Narayanan ` Most attacks in LOC_Event by Pak-based terror groups ' A terrorist 's stunning revelationsWomen & kids : The new soldiers of terror . View PhotosJaipur , May 14 : Terror struck the LOC_Event for the first time this evening , as a series of seven powerful blasts were triggered in a span of 12 minutes in crowded markets and near religious places , killing at least 67 people and injuring nearly 200 others . State Home Minister Gulab Chand Kataria and hospital sources confirmed the number of fatalities . . . Apart from the Sawai Madhav Singh Hospital , where 55 bodies were kept in the mortuary , arrangements for treatment and post-mortems of the victims were also made at the Santokhba Durlabhji Hospital and Sanganeri Gate Mahila Hospital , state Health Minister Narpat Singh Rajvi said . The condition of 20 injured , who were admitted to SMS hospital , was stated to be critical . . . Rajasthan Director General of Police A S Gill said nobody had so far claimed responsibility for the explosions but prima facie they appeared to be the handiwork of some terror outfits . Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje , who was in Jodhpur , immediately rushed back to the state capital after hearing news of the blasts and spoke to senior police officials regarding the incident . . . According to police , the blasts occurred at seven places while a live bomb was defused at one place . The blasts occurred between 1935 hrs and 1947 hrs near religious places in LOC_Event , LOC_Event , near City Kotwali , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event areas . . . At least three blasts took place near religious places where a large number of devotees were present to offer obeisance in the evening . The nature of the bombs and explosives could not be ascertained immediately . Most of the bombs were planted in vehicles , including cars , auto-rickshaws and cycle-rickshaws . . . The state government announced a relief of Rs five lakh to the next of kin of each of those killed , Rs one lakh for those critically wounded and Rs 25,000 for the other injured . . . High alert across the country . . A high alert was sounded and security heightened across various states in the wake of the blasts . In Delhi , intelligence sources said Bangladesh-based militant organisation HUJI was suspected to be behind the LOC_Event serial blasts . . . They said HUJI had reportedly penetrated the Indian hinterland and had sleeper cells in many towns and cities . President Pratibha Patil , Vice-President Hamid Ansari and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh denounced the blasts , terming them as reprehensible , and expressed grief at the huge loss of lives . While deploring the blasts , Ms Patil requested people to maintain peace and harmony . . . Dr Singh assured full support to the Rajasthan government and assistance to the affected families . He also spoke to Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje over the telephone and offered all possible assistance in probing the explosions . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil , who was on a visit to the North East , rushed back to the national capital tonight in the wake of the serial blasts . . . Congress President and UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi denounced the blasts and condoled the tragic loss of lives , calling it a crime against humanity . The BJP said the spurt in terror attacks was a direct fallout of '' a weak Prime Minister and a cowardly Home Minister '' . . . The United States also condemned the blasts , saying there could be no justification for such a murderous assault on innocent people . US Ambassador to India David Mulford , while describing the bombings as '' vicious '' , expressed deepest sympathies with the victims ' families . . . Panic gripped the entire walled city after the blasts and rampage broke out as people started running helter skelter for their homes . Shopkeepers closed their shutters in panic in the walled city market . . . The Rapid Action Force ( RAF ) has been deployed at various points in the city as a precautionary measure . Roads leading to the scenes of the blasts were sealed off and people were advised to stay indoors . There were traffic jams at several points . . . . Dozens of people were killed and more than 100 injured when six bombs ripped through the centre of LOC_Event , one of India 's most popular tourist destinations . . . The explosions , which began at 7.30 pm , took place in LOC_Event surrounding the city 's LOC_Event , the LOC_Event , and its main LOC_Event . . . Television pictures showed empty blood-splattered streets and the red-stained clothes of the dead being cleared away by police . Bomb disposal officers defused at least one other device . . . The attack sparked a red alert in Mumbai , India 's financial hub , and New Delhi , the country 's capital . Security was also stepped up at airports and railway stations across the country , said India 's junior home minister , Sriprakash Jaiswal . . . Rohit Singh , a senior official in the state of Rajasthan , told local television that between 50 and 60 people had been killed in six blasts `` as per information available with me right now '' . However , local reporters told television stations that there were 55 bodies in just one hospital . . . `` It will definitely rise . There 's just too many in [ one hospital ) , '' said Akilesh Kumar , Jaipur bureau chief with the Times of India . . . Although no one has claimed responsibility for the act , Rajasthan 's police chief , AS Gill , described the strike as `` a terrorist plot '' , adding : `` The way it has been done , the attempt was to cause the maximum damage to human life . '' . . Police say bicycles appear to have been used in the bombings , but it was unclear whether it was the work of suicide bombers riding through the crowds or of explosives planted on bicycles . . . It is clear that the bombers planned a bloody attack . The first bomb struck a temple dedicated to the LOC_Event , whose divinity is celebrated every Tuesday . Eyewitnesses said the temple was packed with devotees offering prayers on their way home from work . . . `` The next bomb was near LOC_Event and looked like it was placed near a LOC_Event , '' eyewitness Lalit Khateri told NDTV news . `` It was very busy with Hindus and Muslims . It was an attack not on Hindus or Muslims but Indians . '' . . LOC_Event is the city 's LOC_Event and a popular destination for tourists . However the tourist season ended in March and it is unlikely that foreigners were hit in the blast . . . India has had a long history of bomb attacks . Last year two explosions killed more than 40 people in Hyderabad . . . . K.V. Subramanya and Sharath S. Srivatsa . . Seven injured in eight low-intensity explosions ; residents panic , traffic thrown out of gear . . LOC_Event : A series of low intensity blasts on Friday rocked the southern and central parts of LOC_Event , a city that has of late been on the radar of terror groups . One person was killed and seven were injured in the eight explosions that created panic among residents and threw traffic out of gear on a rainy working day . . . The explosions were reported within 45 minutes from 1.15 p.m. Though the police have not ruled out the involvement of terrorist groups , Bangalore Police Commissioner Shankar M. Bidari told journalists that miscreants had triggered the blasts to disrupt the peace in the city . Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa , after an emergency Cabinet meeting , announced that no hard core terrorist group was involved in the blasts which , he claimed , were carried out to malign the government . . . I heard a deafening explosion as I was starting my bike , Vinay , an employee of a car showroom on Mysore Road , told The Hindu . I thought a bus tyre had burst until I saw smoke billowing from behind a bush . I ran back into the office , he said . . . According to police sources , improvised explosive devices -LRB- IEDs -RRB- fitted to timer devices were used in all the explosions . Preliminary investigations revealed that ammonium nitrate , bolts and nuts and cement chips were packed into the devices . . . Sources in the National Bomb Data Centre told The Hindu that the IEDs were almost identical to the ones used in the explosions at the LOC_Event , Gokul Chats and the LOC_Event in Hyderabad , and in the court blasts in LOC_Event and Hubli . . . The first explosion occurred at a bus stop near the Madivala checkpost , off the busy Hosur Road , around 1.15 p.m. Sudha Ravi , who was waiting for a bus with her husband , was killed on the spot , and two were injured . Two more explosives went off in the adjoining Audugodi area , injuring three persons . . . Similar low-intensity explosions took place at three places on Mysore Road and at two spots in the heart of the city near the Mallya Hospital and near the Rashtriya Military School on Langford Road . . . At Audugodi , the explosives were planted behind a telephone junction box near a commercial complex under construction and another near a stormwater drain . . . On Mysore Road , the explosives were placed under a power supply transformer near a mall ; one near a stormwater drain ; and the third near a car showroom next to the Regional Transport Office . . . A high alert has been sounded across the State . . . Blasts condemned . . PTI reports from New Delhi : . . President Pratibha Patil , Vice-President M. Hamid Ansari and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh condemned the blasts . . . Ms. Patil expressed deep shock at the loss of lives , saying the blast was aimed at disturbing peace in the country . . . Mr. Ansari said such acts were intended to disturb peace which should be thwarted through national resolves to maintain peace and harmony . . . Dr. Singh asked the people to remain calm and maintain communal harmony . He sanctioned an ex-gratia payment of Rs . 1 lakh to the relatives of the dead woman and Rs . 50,000 to those injured in the blasts . Reporters who rushed to the blast site in front of LOC_Event on the day of serial blasts on July 25 were in for a surprise . There were , thankfully , no deaths and injuries and the place where the blast had occurred looked like a place would after bursting an ane pataki . . . The police , however , were still a harassed lot . With everyone stopping to take a peek at the blast site inside the traffic island , there were vehicles parked all around and there was major chaos . . . One particular woman constable was finding it tough to tell presspersons from non-press persons with everyone claiming to be newspaperwallahs to get a closer look at the place . . . When this correspondent tried to find her way through the crowd , the policewoman knit her brows and said with suspicion writ large on face : But you neither have a camera nor a notepad . . . She was in the mood for looking for clues , shall we say ? It would have made more sense to ask for an identity card if she was indeed serious about finding the right clues . . . Citizens are so used to elusive government officials that they never miss an opportunity to meet the babus . . . The Bangalore Development Authority -LRB- BDA -RRB- had announced that a grievance meeting would be organised on Saturday to redress citizens problems related to site allotment and land acquisition . But following Fridays serial blasts in the city , the BDA cancelled its meet . . . Though the cancellation was publicised in the media , more than a hundred people turned up at the BDA head office with complaints , undeterred by the bombs . BDA officials , who were not prepared for the meeting , had to hastily make arrangements . The Commissioner , H. Siddaiah , and several top officials heard as many as 80 grievances . . . Water is scarce resource and every possible effort should be made to conserve and use it efficiently . The United Nations Development Programme hosted its 2nd Annual Forum of the Water Community to discuss issues concerned water , sanitation and governance . A gentleman at the programme was showing slides of where women were rushing to fill their pots from a water tanker . He said that while he was working in Delhi , water was supplied to him at Rs . 2 a kilolitre and people were paying more than 50 times the price for the same quantity of water . . . But the irony was that the 25 to 30 tables had five half-litre plastic bottles of mineral water on each table when there is a debate world over about expensive packaging of water in plastic . . . BAGESHREE S. , . . AFSHAN YASMEEN , YOGARAJ S. MOUDALGI . Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI : Prominent Muslim organisations have described the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event as a heinous crime against entire humanity . . . The All India Milli Council , Jamaat-Islami Hind and All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushawarat said that no effort should be spared to nab the culprits behind these dastardly crimes . They offered condolences and sympathies to the families of those killed and also the injured . . . Call for impartial probe . . Demanding a high-level impartial and time-bound investigation , secretary general of Jamaat-e-Islami Nusrat Ali cautioned the government and the intelligence agencies against harassing innocent people . Intelligence agencies should not float certain names without proper investigation . The government must look into the real motives of perpetrators of such crimes , he said . . . He appealed to the people to remain calm and united against forces trying to disrupt communal harmony . . . All India Milli Council general secretary M. Manzoor Alam said the quick succession in which the blasts occurred in the two States was stunning . For quite some time , we have had this haunting feeling that we are not able to stop such violence because we have somehow been avoiding thinking out of the box , he said . . . The timing of the blasts , in the run-up to the general election , posed the question who stands to gain from such attacks . . . We hope that investigations will include all probable groups and individuals , than focussing on the usual suspects alone . Only comprehensive and fresh thinking will yield any results in our endeavour to put an end to such violence , he said . . . Form neutral panel . . All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushwarat president Zafarul Islam Khan urged the government to form a high-power neutral panel of retired judges , human rights activists , top lawyers and journalists to oversee the investigations . BANGALORE : There 's a certain inevitability about it . It 's now almost a pattern that terrorists strike even before the nation recovers from its last shock , to leave it traumatized again.The target this time was Bangalore , the country 's IT capital , which has been in the terror shadow for long . The city became a target of eight serial blasts on Friday , leaving one dead , eight injured and the city scarred . The bombs were of low intensity , aimed more at dislocating economic activity than killing hundreds of people . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Only in May , 68 people were killed by terrorists in Jaipur . Even as the police was groping to identify the culprits there , terrorists cocked a snook at the security agencies , triggering eight serial blasts in 35 minutes at seven places during the busy lunch hour . -LRB- In Pics : Bangalore serial bomb blasts -RRB- The lone victim was Sudha , who was waiting at the Madivala bus stand . Her husband Ravi , who was standing beside her , was severely injured . Two others Chetan and Gullamma were also injured.Police said the bombs were put together with ammonium nitrate , commonly used in gelatin sticks , and used nuts and bolts as shrapnel . Timer devices were used to trigger the blasts between 1.40 pm and 2.15 pm in non-descript places on a traffic island , inside a drain , a vacant plot next to a vehicle showroom . As word of the blasts spread , malls , cinema halls and schools shut down for the day.No group claimed responsibility until late Friday , but intelligence sources said Lashkar-e-Taiba and SIMI were main suspects . ` The aim of these groups , whether Huji , LeT or SIMI , is clear . Bangalore and Hyderabad are chosen because by hitting them , panic can be conveyed to US and the west as these cities house their biggest IT operations , ' said a security official involved in the Mecca Masjid probe . LOC_Event has been attacked . Low intensity blasts in a span of one hour in six different places rocked the IT capital of LOC_Event on Friday afternoon in which one person died and seven were injured . While the first seven blasts took place between 1.30-2 .30 pm , the eighth blast blast took place at LOC_Event , near LOC_Event , on Mysore LOC_Event at around 5.30 pm and the ninth blast took place near the LOC_Event onMysore Road at 6.30 pm . The LOC_Event police have termed it as an act of terror . . . The first two blasts occurred at LOC_Event at 1.30 pm behind the famous LOC_Event , which is a major shopping destination in LOC_Event . The second bomb was placed near a granite factory under some granite slabs . . . The blast at LOC_Event occured near the check post at 1.50 pm , which were followed by a blast at LOC_Event in a bus shelter at 2.10 pm . Between 2.10 and 2.30 pm very low intensity blasts were reported near the Mallya hospital at a park and on LOC_Event and LOC_Event road . . . A woman who died in the blasts has been identified as Lakshmi . She , along with her husband , was standing at the bus stop when the explosion occurred . Reports suggest that she was hit on the head by a bolt . He husband Ravi has also been injured in the attack . Five other persons have been injured in the blasts . . . LOC_Event Police Commissioner Shankar Bidri said the blasts were of low intensity and gelatin sticks were used . . . Preliminary investigations show that the bombs were attached to a timer device and were triggered off by a mobile phone . A similar pattern was used in the Hyderbad twin blasts and also at Jaipur and Ajmer . . . While various theories are being floated regarding the cause of the blasts , the police maintain that it was only to scare people and create law and order problems . . . While the Intelligence Bureau are not ruling out the hand of the Students Islamic Movement of LOC_Event behind the blasts , the cops maintain that it is too early to blame anyone . . . The IB says that the attack could be three pronged -- one to scare the IT sector in LOC_Event , two to warn the LOC_Event police in the wake of the arrests of SIMI cadres in LOC_Event which led to the arrests of 10 supremos of SIMI in Indore and lastly as a retaliatory measure since the Bharatiya Janata Party is in power for the first time in south LOC_Event . . . Looking closely at the manner in which the attacks were carried out , the IB says that it was more of an attempt to scare the people rather than kill . The bombs were of low intensity and the places in which they were hidden is a clear indication that the intention was more to scare the general public and in the case of the LOC_Event and LOC_Event explosions , the IT sector in particular . There are large number of IT professionals living in these two areas . . . Moments after the explosions , panic set in LOC_Event city . People were seen running helter skelter at the blast sites , while the rest of the city remained tense . What made matters worse was that all mobile lines were jammed and people were trying desperately to contact their near and dear ones . . . However , shops and establishments did not down shutters and offices and schools remained open even after hearing the news of the blasts . The only effect of the blasts were traffic jams all across the city . . . On the spot , people looked shaken up and were in a daze following the explosions . They saidthey heard a loud explosion and when they looked around there was dust that had kicked up and several window panes shattered . . . The police were quick to get into the thick of the action and both the dog squad and the forensic team were pressed into service . . . Bidri assured the people that the situation was under control and there was no cause for panic . He said that security had been beefed up and the police have taken stock of the situation . . . Gopal Hosur , joint commissioner , crime , said that there was nothing to worry . He said that the blasts were low intensity in nature . He assured the people that the situation was under control . . . NEW DELHI : LOC_Event was attacked - possibly by local elements - only a day after the Centre warned Karnataka that it was high on the terror hitlist along with six other states and decided to amend a law to allow the CISF to provide security to private information technology and other sensitive industries in the country.Though there had not been any specific intelligence input for Bangalore which is home to over 1,500 private companies including IT majors like Infosys and Wipro , the home ministry on Thursday held a detailed discussion over Karnataka 's preparedness to deal with general threat in view of its vulnerability as per intelligence reports.A new security plan for IT and other industries was announced by home minister Shivraj Patil here immediately after the LOC_Event serial blasts on Friday . ` We have decided to provide security to the private sector also - specifically the IT industry in Bangalore . IT sector has come up very well and we are ready to amend the law and provide security to them , ' Patil told reporters while condemning the blasts.He said the Centre was always ready to provide CISF personnel for the IT industry but the law only allowed public sector undertakings -LRB- PSUs -RRB- to have the benefit of this paramilitary force.Once the Centre amends the law pertaining to the charter of CISF , the paramilitary force will be able to provide security to other private sector units - particularly the sensitive ones - as well in other states.The modalities were discussed by home ministry officials in the meeting on Thursday when top cops of six other states - Andhra Pradesh , Rajasthan , Uttar Pradesh , Maharashtra , Punjab and Assam - and Union Territory Delhi held discussions over several other security related issues . ` The meeting , chaired by special secretary -LRB- internal security -RRB- M L Kumawat , also emphasised the need to have a coordinated and systematic approach towards terror incidents to ensure an understanding of the modus operandi of the elements involved and thereby reduce possibilities of such incidents in future , ' said a senior home ministry official.A security review meeting also took place on Friday in which home secretary Madhukar Gupta took stock of the situation in the wake of LOC_Event serial blasts . The home ministry later asked forensic experts of National Security Guard -LRB- NSG -RRB- to rush to Bangalore to examine the nature of explosives used in the blasts . The Centre also asked states to remain on high alert.Though officials remained tight-lipped , they hinted that the blasts appeared to be the handiwork of local elements who used locally available explosives -LRB- possibly gelatine sticks -RRB- to create ` panic ' among the public as well as security personnel . They believed that the motive could be to send a message of their potential ` to strike at will ' anywhere in the city which had last witnessed a terror attack in December , 2005 . Although the IT city had not been attacked after the 2005 incident , it had always been in the list of jehadis - both from the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Toiba -LRB- LeT -RRB- and local Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- . Incidentally , Karnataka is one of the six states including UP , Maharashtra , Andhra Pradesh , Madhya Pradesh and Kerala where SIMI has a major presence.Footprints of SIMI were traced in a number of blasts in the past when it provided logistics to both LeT and Harkat-ul-Jehad-al-Islami -LRB- HuJI -RRB- . -LRB- vishwa.mohan@timesgroup.com -RRB- . The Special Investigating Team probing the July 25 serial blasts in LOC_Event picked up an activist of the Students Islamic Movement of India on Tuesday . . . ` Indian Mujahideen is SIMI , V2 .0 . . An investigating officer told rediff.com that they picked up Sameer Sadiq , a SIMI activist from the Gurapanapalya area in LOC_Event , on Tuesday . . . With this arrest , the police say it is becoming clear that SIMI was behind the blasts in LOC_Event and were using the name of Indian Mujahideen to conceal their identity . . . View : Incubus of India Mujahideen . . The investigating teams say they are probing deeper into the SIMI angle and preliminary investigations show that the banned outfit was behind the blasts.Sadiq , according to the police , had played a key role in the Surat riots . He was staying at Gurapanapalya in LOC_Event , the area which incidentally housed the SIMI office before it had been banned . . . Indian Mujahideen 's two-pronged terror strategy . . The police have seized Sadiq 's mobile phone and are checking the call records of both his cell phone and land phone.It may be recalled that Sadiq had been questioned following the arrests of SIMI operative Riazuddin Nasir and Yahya Kamakutty in LOC_Event earlier this year . LOC_Event Police had cracked down on SIMI operatives and their interrogation led to the arrest of 10 SIMI activists at Indore in Madhya Pradesh . . . ISI 's Indianisation of jihad . . With the role of the SIMI becoming stronger in the case , the police are cracking down on local SIMI groups in the state . The police are trying to find more clues by cracking down on these groups . More arrests are expected in the next couple of days , an officer added.On high alertPolice has decided to crack down on terror in a big way in LOC_Event . While the government proposed the issuing of identification cards to all residents of LOC_Event and other parts of the state , the Karnataka police have issued a circular to all PCO owners to maintain a register regarding the people who come to the booths . The police , in their circular , have stated that it is mandatory that PCO owners maintain a register and keep a tab on all callers . They should make a mention of the destination to which a call is made , how much time was spent at the booth and also jot details regarding the description of the man who came to the booth . . Who carried out the blasts at LOC_Event and LOC_Event ? Investigating agencies say they were masterminded by two Karachi-based men -- Rasool Khan Parti and Mohammad Sufiya Ahmed Patangiya . . . The duo , who currently reside at Farahan Arcade Gulistan in Karachi , are originally residents of Hyderabad , Andhra Pradesh . Prior to fleeing to Karachi , the duo were involved in recruitment of youth for jihadi activities in Hyderabad and other parts of the country . They were both allegedly members of the Harkat-ul-Jihad-al Islami , but recruited youth mainly from the Students Islamic Movement of India . Both men are wanted by the Gujarat police in connection with the murder of former state minister Haren Pandya . . . An Intelligence Bureau officer investigating last week 's blasts told rediff.com the duo planned the attacks during a meeting in Kotli , Pakistan , in May . . . Investigators say Indian Mujahideen is SIMI , V2 .0 . . The investigating agencies have also got information on the manner in which the blasts were executed . They say the entire operation was carried out by Indians , unlike in past instances where Pakistanis or Bangladeshis were used . . . Both Parti and Patangiya handpicked Indian youth working in the United Arab Emirates for the operation . This indicates that the youth had been picked well in advance and sent off to the UAE on the pretext of jobs there . This could have been done to avoid coming under the scanner of the Indian police , the officials say . From the UAE they were flown into Dubai from where they were taken to Muzaffarabad in Pakistan occupied Kashmir . . . The youth were divided in two groups and then trained personally by Patri and Patangiya . They were taught how to prepare bombs and execute the attacks . They called it training in alternate explosions . They were specifically taught how to make bombs using ammonium nitrate and directed to pick up the material locally . The use of RDX was ruled out since it was a problem to smuggle it across the border . . . B Raman : ISI 's Indianisation of jihad . . After undergoing training for a month , the youth were flown back to Dubai and then taken to Bangladesh . They were directed to cross over into India through the porous border . Investigating agencies say they took this trouble to avoid the police and security agencies . . . Once in India , the two groups split up and undertook the operations in LOC_Event and LOC_Event separately , although they kept in regular touch . The date and time of the attacks was fixed by Parti . . . The police are now trying to ascertain how many members were in each team and also from where they picked up the ammonium nitrate and other material required to make the bombs . The police suspect that the two teams assembled the bombs separately in the cities they attacked . . . The Bengaluru police believe that the ammonium nitrate must have been brought into Karnataka from Kerala via Mysore . However , police says the terrorists dumped a part of the consignment about 50 kilometres from Bengaluru as they feared detection . However , they managed to smuggle in enough material to carry out the blasts . . . View : The truth is security in India is a joke . . IB sources say they are concerned by the growing number of Indian youth being lured into terror outfits . They say that intercepts from Pakistan indicate that there are many Indian youth outside Parti 's home in Karachi daily . . . Investigating agencies are also looking into the statements made by SIMI activist Riazuddin Nasir aka Mohammad Ghouse . After his arrest in Karnataka earlier this year had told the police that he had met Parti in Karachi . . . Thanks to these men , not all bombs explode . View PhotosNews Gallery Bangalore , Jul 25 : A series of seven bomb blasts ripped through the Bangalore , the LOC_Event of India on Friday , July 25 . While four low-intensity blasts went off at LOC_Event ( 1.20 pm ) , LOC_Event ( LOC_Event ) ( 1.25 pm ) , LOC_Event ( 1.45 pm ) areas on the outskirts , blasts also rocked areas near LOC_Event ( 2.10 pm ) LOC_Event ( 2.25 pm ) , LOC_Event and LOC_Event ( 2.35 pm ) in LOC_Event city . Two blasts were reported in LOC_Event . All blasts happened in a span of one hour . . . First blast occured in LOC_Event . The blasts occured in places were more minority groups are settled . City Police Commissioner , Shankar Bidri confirmed 2 deaths . He said , a women , named Lakshmi ( 65 ) was killed in blast that occured in LOC_Event . She was waiting for bus at the Bus Stop in LOC_Event . Her husband Ravi is also critically injured and shifted to near by hospital . Two people are critically injured in the blast and are shifted to St John 's hospital . Although the police have not yet been able to ascertain the cause of the blast , reports suggest that it may be an act of terror . . . The Union Home Ministry suspect Pakistan based Lashker-e-Toiba with the help of local terror outfit SIMI have carried out the blast . Ministry has asked for a detailed report of the blasts . State Home Ministry condemned the incident . BJP has criticised Centre for not providing adequate security to the City . . . The first blast took place at LOC_Event which incidentally is behind the famous Forum Mall , one of the leading shopping destinations in Bangalore . The second and third blasts took place at LOC_Event and LOC_Event both on the outskirts of the city . . . Initial reports suggested that the blasts were low intensity caused by gelatin sticks , normally used for quarrying and mining . Police confirmed that materials used in bombs are similar to that of the ones used in LOC_Event and LOC_Event blasts . . . Police suspect hands of SIMI behind the serial blasts . Events indicate that these blasts are planned . The blasts happened aound 1.30 pm when Muslims comes out after their Friday prayer . Police said that the terrorists have used timer and cell phone for the blasts . All cell phone lines leading to the trouble tone areas are jammed . . . Majority of schools , malls , and shops were closed after the blasts . . . Unconfirmed reports says that these serial blasts are in retaliation to the incidents that occured in LOC_Event area in the city . There was a communal tension in this area after some miscreants polluted a mosque in this area . . . The public can send sms alerts to police control room to 98440-51677 . They can also send blast photos for quick analysis to police head quarters : 99805-10137 . . . Police commissionr Shankara Bidari said that the City has been put under High Alert following the serial blasts . So far , no one has claimed responsiblity for the blasts . The serial blast is a well planned network but the intensity of blasts is on low key-technology . . . Nation witnessed such terror attacks in LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event in past one year . . . Chief Minister of Karnataka , B S Yeddyurappa has called for a emergency Cabinet meeting here at Bangalore . . . IISc Terror Attack 2005 . . In 2005 Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists had targeted Indian Institute of Science ( IISc ) in Bangalore , killing a scientist and injuring four others . . . Reports reaching OneIndia say that most of the Software companies ( infosys , Wipro , Cisco ) especially the offices housed in electronic city , Hosur road , Sarjapur Road , Bannerughatta Road , BTM layout closed post lunch operations following blasts . . . OneIndia News . . . . . The LOC_Event serial blasts case has been cracked . . . . . Seven months after the terrorists attack on the city , the Anti Terrorist Cell hasrevealed that the serial blasts of July 25 , 2008 , were carried out by associates of key Lashkar-e-Tayiba operative Riaz Bhatkal , who continues to remain elusive.Investigating agencies havein their custody nine persons , including a father-son duo . The four men in the custody of the police are Mohammad Sami , Safrudeen , his father Abdul Sattar , Munaaf , Zakaria Abdul Jaleel , Muhammad Faizal , Mujeeb and Badaruddin . Eight of the arrested men hail from different parts of Kerala while Sami hails from Bijapur in north Karnataka . . . ATC sources told rediff.com that all the arrested persons are associated with Bhatkal and Tauqeer alias Abdul Subhan -- the techie who is considered to be instrumental in setting up the tech wing of the Students Islamic Movement of India . Explaining the manner in which the blasts were carried out , the ATC said that these men from Kerala had planted the bombs by disguising themselves as labourers . Addressing a press conference in Bangalore on Saturday , Police Commissioner Shankar Bidri told media persons that the intention was create havoc and also a sensation . These youth are misguided and belong to a terror module in Kerala , he added.How the plot was revealed : The entire plot was unveiled following the statements of Abdul Sattar , whose custody the Bangalore police got from Hyderabad . Sattar was arrested by Hyderabad Police on January 19 . The custody of the rest of the accused was sought from the Kerala Police.During the interrogation , it was revealed that all the accused belonged to a terror module run by the Lashkar in Kerala . Sattar , who is an electronics engineer , said he had expertise in preparing bombs . It was he who fitted the bombs with the timer devices , which were finally used in the LOC_Event blasts . Bhatkal and Tauqeer ordered the module to carry out the blasts . Sattar was told to send his son and others to LOC_Event to plant the bombs . The accused reached Bangalore in a Scorpio vehicle . They then disguised themselves as labourers and planted nine bombs in different places . One person was killed in the blasts.Sattar also confirmed the statement given by Sami , who had earlier said that Tauqueer had played a major role in the blasts . Tauqueer was present in Bangalore at the time of the blasts and supervised the operation , he also said . . Pandemonium ruled as serial blasts rocked India 's LOC_Event today . The low-intensity bomb blasts that exploded in different crowded locations saw two people dead and several injured . The seven near-simultaneous blasts had a shell-shocked IT community initiating enhanced security measures across locations in Bangalore . . . Biocon chairman and managing director Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said , `` This is a real wake-up call and we need to keep track of people coming in and out of the city . Terrorists have started outsmarting our intelligence networks so the solutions lie in adopting high-end technology . The police need to have an audit done of our security systems . '' . . It is for the first time that the country 's IT capital witnessed a terror attack of such proportions . In 2005 , terrorists had attacked the LOC_Event . A Delhi IIT professor was killed and four persons injured in the firing . . . Today 's blasts , which occurred between 1.30 pm and 1.45 pm , shows the need to keep constant vigil and be better-prepared . A Wipro spokesperson said , `` We have initiated enhanced security measures as per our standard operating procedure across locations . None of our employees or facilities have been affected . '' . . PTI reports say the seven near-simultaneous blasts occurred due to crude bombs that were concealed near refugee camps and roadside stuffed with nuts and bolts . They exploded during the busy lunch hour at different crowded locations . Four of the blasts were between Hosur Road and Madiwala ; the other three at Nayandahalli , Vittal Mallya Road and Richmond Circle , City Police Commissioner Shankar Bidari told reporters . . . Following the blast , local mobile networks were jammed with people left in the lurch.An Infosys spokesperson said , `` All our employees are safe and there has been no impact on our business operations . We are in touch with the police department to and will remain fully alert . We have increased security on our campus . '' . . Traffic snarls and chaos took over as people scurried home . But the common man was caught in the eye of the storm as schools closed early and people found it difficult to find transport to ferry them home . People like Leslie Gomes , a software engineer who was out with a group of friends in one of Bangalore 's popular hangouts-Brigade Road , the news of the blast came as a shock . . . `` We got the call around 1.35 but we thought one of our friends was playing the fool . But slowly we saw people in our restaurant pack food and leave . That is when it struck us that the news might be true . '' . . The state welfare minister Shoba has announced a solatium of Rs one lakh to the family of the deceased woman and said the government would bear the medical expenses of those injured . . . However for people on the street this will come as little solace . As Manjula Sharan , a mother of two , who was taking her children home said , `` For now , I am going to try and keep my family safe at home , and pray we do not have a situation like this . '' . NEW DELHI : The deadly serial bomb blasts on consecutive days in LOC_Event and LOC_Event have shown that the terrorists are confident of striking at will . But what 's the message they are trying to send ? Strategic analysis expert B Raman says that the blasts seem to be directed against the BJP-ruled states . ` The next series of blasts could possibly be carried out in Madhya Pradesh . It is no coincidence that SIMI cadres were arrested in Indore and Ujjain recently , ' he says . Earlier blasts this year were carried out in LOC_Event and LOC_Event , both BJP-ruled states . Five minutes before Saturday 's blasts , a television channel received an email from a terror group claiming to be Indian Mujahideen . In the past one year , this group has owned responsibility for several other strikes . They seem to nurse a grudge against the country 's criminal justice system . ` The innocent Muslims arrested in the -LRB- LOC_Event -RRB- bomb blast case are being tried for years and years , ' it says . There is no reference to Kashmir in the email . According to Ajai Sahni , executive director , Institute for Conflict Management , the blasts do not reflect any dramatic augmentation in the strike capacity of the terrorists . ` We must not forget that the terrorists have only been able to hit at soft targets since the Parliament attack in 2001 . And every soft target can not be secured . ' However , he adds : ` If the LOC_Event and LOC_Event blasts are co-related , then it reflects a greater central coordination . ' Sahni is of the view that the material damage wrecked by terrorism is limited . ` But the psychological impact is much more . And this is what needs to be controlled , ' he says . He feels there is an urgent need to shore up the national security apparatus also points out the roadblocks in the way . ` India 's police to population ratio is one of the lowest in the world , barring the poorer African countries . There is a high deficit of personnel in intelligence gathering . The IB has barely 3,500 field officers . We need to address these shortcomings , ' Sahni says . Security expert Prakash Singh , however , feels that the successive blasts in Bangalore and Ahmedabad show the overconfidence of the terrorists . ` They have no fear of being detected , arrested or prosecuted , ' he says . Affirms PR Chari , research professor , Institute for Peace and Conflict Studies , ` The blasts were a demonstration of their capabilities and a terse reminder of the state 's helplessness . ' . The designated Metropolitan Court in an on-camera hearing on Friday remanded all the 26 serial blasts accused in police custody till October 31 in two different cases . . . Twenty-two accused that . . included Mufti Mohammad Abu Bashr , Sajid Mansuri and Safdar Nagori were sent to police custody in connection with the blast that had taken place near a temple in LOC_Event . The case was registered with the Danilimda police station . . . Earlier on Thursday , lawyers representing the accused had walked out of the courtroom , alleging the court had not let them complete their arguments . . . They had also filed a joint application , demanding that they be permitted to meet the accused in the absence of police . Metropolitan Magistrate G M Patel had rejected this application . . . The other four accused , including Mehandi Hasan and Atiz-Ur-Rehman , who were first arrested by the Rajasthan Police in connection with the LOC_Event serial blasts , have been taken into custody in connection with the case registered with the Maninagar police station . . . Four blasts , including the one at the L G Hospital had taken place in the Maninagar area of the city . . . The Ahmedabad City Detection of Crime Branch -LRB- DCB -RRB- , the investigating agency , has stated in its remand application that the custody of the accused in the Danilimda case was necessary to present them before eye-witnesses for identification . . . The police said that by way of an identification parade before eyewitnesses they were looking to pin down the persons who had planted the bombs at various places . . . The DCB has also stated that details of the bicycles used to plant bombs are yet to be found from the accused . BHOPAL/AHMEDABAD : The Madhya Pradesh Anti-Terror Squad late on Sunday night arrested Qayamuddin Kapadia , a top-ranking jehadi belonging to the outlawed SIMI and a key conspirator and executor of the 19 serial blasts in LOC_Event which killed 57 and injured over 200 on July 26 . Police claimed that Kapadia admitted his involvement in the LOC_Event blasts , as also that he along with fellow jehadis , Abdul Subhan Qureshi alias Tauqeer of Mumbai and Riaz Bhatkal of Karnataka , collaborated with the SIMI cell led by Atif to carry out the Delhi blasts.Atif was later killed in an encounter with Delhi Police . Kapadia aka KP , who knew Atif only by the latters code name , boarded the Rajdhani Express for Delhi from Ahmedabad just before the explosives they had planted in Gujarats biggest city went off.He even stayed in the L-18 apartment , Atifs hideout in New Delhis Batla House , after the LOC_Event blasts . After the blasts in LOC_Event , Kapadia had spent a few nights at Batla House , chief of Madhya Pradesh ATS , DIG Pawan Shrivastava told TOI . He was also spotted in Delhi before the serial blasts on September 13 . The arrest after a massive manhunt is important for several reasons . It strengthens the governments case against the outlawed SIMI , while validating the assumption of cops that Indian Mujahideen was just a badge that SIMI activists embraced for tactical reasons.While he is sure to recant later , Kapadias statement to cops marks another confirmation of Atif allegedly being a hardcore jehadi rather than a simple student of Jamia Millia as many have continued to maintain . His arrest , besides helping to add valuable inputs to the already thick dossier cops have on the absconding Tauqeer whom he was close to and Bhatkal , also marks a serious blow to SIMI which has , over the past couple of months , seen many of its top operatives falling in the police net.Kapadia has nearly half-a-dozen names . The police registered him as Qayamuddin Kapadia alias Moosa alias Ashwaq alias Abdul Qadir alias Rizwan , a resident of Wadi Taiwada in Vadodara . In Vadodara , he and his brother were running a DTP business and doing well . His father is an imam there , Shrivastava said . He identified all those in the Batla House and accused in the LOC_Event blasts . He told us that he knew them personally and was hiding in that flat in Batla House after the LOC_Event blasts . Kapadia had , in a cold blooded manner , filmed the blast at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad that day , which saw the maximum casualty of 32 . This clip was later posted in an email by the Indian Mujahideen sent to media houses.He had hand-picked the terror operatives and also helped procure the cycles used to plant bombs . On Monday morning , MP police informed Ahmedabad crime branch about Kapadias arrest , whose team under assistant commissioner of police , R I Asari rushed to get his custody.In the aftermath of the serial blasts in Ahmedabad , Gujarat police had issued warrant against Kapadia and the other absconders to all police stations across the country . Kapadia is also suspected to have played a role in planting the 29 bombs in Surat.Joint commissioner of police , crime branch , Ashish Bhatia said , This is a very important arrest for us . Kapadia is not only part of the terror conspiracy , along with Tauqeer , but also the executioner of the terror plan for Ahmedabad and Surat.Kapadia had escaped during the MP police crackdown on a SIMI hideout when 13 SIMI activists including Safdar Nagori were arrested . Kapadia has been attached to the SIMI for five years . Police added that he is a high-school graduate . An activist of the banned Students Islamic Movement of LOC_Event , who was wanted in the 2002 LOC_Event riots , was arrested on Sunday from LOC_Event after a combing operation for his alleged connection to the blasts there . . . The police arrested Abdul Halim from Dani Limda in the heart of LOC_Event Halim had gone into hiding after the riots and remained untraceable so far . . . ` There were reports that he was in hiding in Delhi and we had intimidated the Delhi police as well . After receiving some specific inputs about his whereabouts , the crime branch arrested him during a combing operation , ' LOC_Event Joint Commissioner of Police Ashish Bhatia told PTI over phone . . . Bhatia said Halim was arrested in connection with Saturday 's blasts in LOC_Event that claimed 45 lives . . . Halim was wanted by the cops for enticing disgruntled youths from the riot victims ' refugee camps in and around LOC_Event and taking them to Uttar Pradesh . . . ` From there an organised network was engaged in sending these youths across the border for training purpose and Halim was a part of this network . Currently he is being interrogated , ' said Bhatia . . LOC_Event : City crime branch has claimed that Amir Raza Khan , at present based in Pakistan , had directed Riyaz Bhatkal and his brother Iqbal to carry out the bomb blasts here on July 26 . Amir Raza Khan , learnt to be a member of terror outfit HuJI is a resident of Kolkata , while Riyaz Bhatkal is alleged to be the founder member of Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- . Bhatkal brothers had connived with SIMI leaders to hatch the conspiracy of serial blasts in the city and trained local people , the chargesheet submitted last week by the Crime Branch said , adding , IM was a new form of SIMI . SIMI members Safdar Nagori , Hafez Hussain , Sibli Abdul Karim , Kamruddin Nagori , Amil Parvez and Mufti Abu Basher planned the attack and asked Abdus Subhan alias Tauqeer and Qayamuddin Kapadia for executing the blasts . SIMI members organised terror training camps in Waghamon in Kerala and Halol near Vadodara , it said . Qayamuddin and Tauqeer then held a meeting with their local contacts in the city for arrangements of logistics and support to carry out the conspiracy . The local contacts were those who were associated with SIMI before it was banned in 2001 by the Central Government . Some of them have already been arrested by the crime branch while some are still absconding , the 2000-page chargesheet stated . Gujarat police had earlier claimed that Abu Basher was the mastermind behind the terror attacks in the city . Gujarat Police on Saturday claimed to have busted a pan-India network behind the serial blasts in LOC_Event and other cities in the country with the arrest of 10 people , including Mufti Abu Bashir -- described as the mastermind behind the explosions . . . Rediff.com broke this news first : Breakthrough in LOC_Event blasts case . . ` We have almost entirely solved the case . We have arrested 10 people who were involved in the July 26 blasts including the mastermind , Mufti Abu Bashir , ' Gujarat Director General of Police P C Pande said . . . He said most of the arrested persons were part of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India and Bashir , picked up in a joint operation by the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat Police , had planned out the entire blasts . . . In India , we do n't catch terrorists . . The Indian Mujahideen , which had claimed responsibility for the LOC_Event blasts , was nothing but ` another form ' of the banned SIMI , he said.Though refusing to give details about other arrested persons , he , however , said that the investigations into the blasts were carried out in a number of states , which included UP , Madhya Pradesh , New Delhi and Karnataka . . . ` In no previous blasts , has the case being completely solved . These arrests may give leads to other blasts that including Jaipur , Hyderabad and Uttar Pradesh , ' the police chief claimed . . . The one billion + cannon-fodder . . Throwing fresh leads to the LOC_Event blasts , Pande claimed that Bashir had stayed in that city for two years prior to the August 2007 blasts . . . About SIMI 's involvement with Pakistan-based Lashker-e-Tayiba , Pande said there had been some leads establishing the same . . . ` One may find links between SIMI-LeT and Pakistan 's ISI as the investigation proceeds , ' he said . . . ISI 's Indianisation of jihad . . The police was also on a look out for Mumbai-based Wipro engineer , alleged to be the co-conspirator in the blasts and his role in sending the email minutes before the blasts was not ruled out . . . Commenting about the Indian Mujahideen , Pande told reporters that it was nothing but an off-shoot created by the hardliners in the SIMI . . . Police said the SIMI cadres were given arms training in the jungles of Kerala in 2006 , which was followed by another round of training at Halol in central Gujarat in January this year . . . ` Terrorism and riots are not interlinked ' . . The arrested militants had made several plans to kidnap or hijack to free Safdar Nagori , an alleged top SIMI activist , arrested in Madhya Pradesh in March this year . . . Later it was decided to carry out a revenge attack as they failed to secure his release legally or through any other nefarious plan . ` Arrest of a mastermind in the city 's serial blasts case is a very important event and we believe that it will uncover many unsolved links to bomb blasts that took place in other parts of the country , ' Pande said . . . The plan for the bomb blasts in LOC_Event was worked out at a training camp held by SIMI leader Safdar Nagori in Halol taluka of Vadodara in January 2008 , Joint Police Commissioner -LRB- Ahmedabad crime branch -RRB- Ashish Bhatia said . . . Investigators say Indian Mujahideen is SIMI , V2 .0 . . Nagori was arrested by Madhya Pradesh police in March 2008 . . . According to Bhatia , a series of meetings were held to plan the bomb blasts in the city in the month of April , May and June , while the final meeting was held on July 20 , in the city . . . Abu Bashir and other suspects arrested by the police were present in all these meetings where they designed the strategy for execution of their masterplan , Bhatia said , who is also heading the investigations into the serial blasts . . . During the meetings , the suspects had planned details of how , when and where the blasts will occur and also assigned specific duties to each person , he added . . . ` The blasts are a proclamation by terrorists ' . . ` Their strategy was to place small explosives in different places to create panic among people . And then have a powerful explosion at a hospital , where all those injured in the small explosions would be rushing to . So they targeted the city civil hospital , ' Bhatia said . . . The details of the planning were divulged by nine persons arrested by the police , including four from Vadodara and five from Ahmedabad , he added.The nine persons arrested are - Jahid Sheikh , Yunus Mansuri , Shamsuddin Sheikh , Arif Kadri , Gyasuddin , Imran , Usman Agarbattiwala , Iqbal Sheikh and Sajid Mansuri -- all in the age group of 20-25 , police said . . . Pande said that the same persons were involved in planting bombs in LOC_Event . Nearly two dozens of live bombs were planted in Surat city , which were defused . . AHMEDABAD/LUCKNOW : Three weeks after serial blasts rocked Ahmedabad , killing 57 people , Gujarat police claimed a major breakthrough with the arrest of 10 activists of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- , including nine from Gujarat . -LRB- Watch -RRB- The formal announcement of these arrests was made only after the alleged mastermind , Mufti Abdul Bashar Kasmi , was picked up from Sarai Meer locality in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday . A Gujarat police team struggled to convince their reluctant UP counterparts about Bashar 's involvement and it took some phone calls between higher-ups in the two states to sort things out . -LRB- See Ninans Cartoon -RRB- Bashar was arrested in a joint operation and produced before the special CBI judge -LRB- Lucknow -RRB- Rekha Dixit who allowed 3 day transit-remand to Gujarat police.Police officials in Ahmedabad claimed that the group headed by SIMI leader Safdar Nagori had executed similar blasts in Jaipur , Hyderabad and Bangalore . After Nagori 's arrest in Indore in March ' 08 , Mufti Bashar had wrested control of SIMI 's terror module.The breakthrough is bound to boost the sagging morale of Indian agencies in the forefront of the war on terror . It 's the first time that police have moved with this kind of speed and thoroughness after a terror attack . It also marks a new level of coordination between state police forces and with central intelligence agencies , a factor cited as a negative after each terror attack . ` We say this with pleasure and pride that our investigations would lead to the cracking of other serial blasts in the country , ' said Gujarat DGP , P C Pande , acknowledging the contribution of police forces from Delhi , Rajasthan , Karnataka and Maharashtra in the investigations , apart from central agencies.Bashar re-grouped the SIMI network after Nagori 's arrest and plotted the Ahmedabad blasts with the help of a Mumbai-based techie , an employee of Wipro who is still at large . ` SIMI operatives were working under the guise of Indian Mujahideen . Remove the first and last letters of SIMI , and you have the IM , ' said Pande . . . ` Raw material for bombs came from MP ' Announcing the arrest of Mufti Abdul Bashar Kasmi , Gujarat DGP , P C Pande said : ` Mufti had paid frequent visits to Gujarat and the Ahmedabad and Surat terror strikes were planned during a camp held in January 2008 in the forests of Pavagadh , 50 km from Vadodara . Bashar planned the attacks in the house of Yunus Mansuri in Bapunagar area of Ahmedabad , ' said joint commissioner of police -LRB- crime -RRB- Ashish Bhatia , who led the investigations . ` Raw material for making the bombs arrived from Madhya Pradesh and a house in Vatva area of LOC_Event was rented by the group to make the bombs . While some bombs were made at Yunus ' residence , the rest were manufactured in Vadodara and sent to Surat , ' said Bhatia . Crime branch officials said the two cars that were turned into deadly bombs in the Civil Hospital and L G Hospital blasts in LOC_Event were stolen from Mumbai by SIMI activists from MP . The cars were handed over to the terror group in Vapi town of Gujarat and the car-lifters stayed in Bharuch with key SIMI operative , Sajid Mansuri , whose arrest earlier this week unravelled the whole plot . The cars were later brought to LOC_Event and fitted with the bombs . Police have also identified the people and places from where second-hand bicycles were procured for use in the blasts . New Delhi : The serial blasts in LOC_Event came a day after the blasts in LOC_Event . . . However , the similarities , many would say do not end there . In fact , the blasts in both the cities were of low-intensity and took place in crowded places . `` The blasts were of low intensity and similar to those which hit LOC_Event , '' Union Minister of State for Home Sriprakash Jaiswal told reporters in Kanpur . . . And while the party top brass refused to comment on this similarity , both states - Karnataka and Gujarat - are ruled by the BJP . Advani refrained from commenting on whether BJP-ruled states were being targeted but demanded the Centre must have stringent anti-terror laws in place . . . BJP president Rajnath Singh blamed the UPA government for its `` soft approach '' because of which terrorists had grown bolder . . . He also took the government to task for repealing POTA and for `` sleeping over the anti-terror laws like GUJCOCA ( an anti-terror law adopted by the Gujarat Assembly ) '' . . . Reacting to his statement , Congress party 's chief spokesperson Veerappa Moily said , `` It is an irresponsible statement , not befitting the occasion . It does not befit a national leader to speak in that kind of tone . '' . . Police said at least 20 persons were killed and the deaths were reported from Vadilal Sarabhai , Civil and LG hospitals . . . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil has convened a high level meeting on Sunday morning to review the security situation across the country . . . . At least29 people were killed and over 100were injured as 16 serial bomb blasts rocked LOC_Event on Saturday evening . Cycles were probably used to plant the bombs while some were placed on buses , G K Parmar , joint commissioner of LOC_Event police , told rediff.com . . . Parmar said thatthe police are on the lookout for more live bombs . The explosions occurred at LOC_Event , LOC_Event circle , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event bridge , LOC_Event and LOC_Event and created a wave of panic . . . Crowded areas including market places were hit in the synchronised ` low-intensity ' explosions in a space of 60 to 70 minutes after the first blast hit LOC_Event at 6.45 pm . The bombs placed in tiffin boxes were strapped on to bicycles . Some of the blast sites were in sensitive areas in the old city but the situation was peaceful as the night wore on . . . There were three blasts in LOC_Event -- the constituency of Chief Minister Narendra Modi -- and two in LOC_Event targeting a state transport CNG bus and near the old LOC_Event . . . ` As per the latest information , 29 persons were killed , ' Modi told reporters late on Saturday night . . . Significantly , two blasts occurred in the premises of Civil and LG hospitals where several victims of the explosions in other areas were being rushed exacerbating the already tense situation . A nationwide alert has been sounded . . . A shocked Modi said the LOC_Event blasts was a ` war against LOC_Event ' and a handiwork of terror groups . Declaring there should be one voice against terrorism , Modi also said there is a ` mastermind group and a mastermind country ' behind the blasts . The people behind the attack will be ` hounded out ' , said Modi , who also spoke to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh . . . ` The blasts were of low intensity and similar to those which hit Bangalore , ' Union Minister of State for Home Sriprakash Jaiswal told reporters in Kanpur . . . A common feature seen at the blast sites was use of blue ballbearings in the explosions . . . The civic authorities have stopped plying of all the city transport buses . . . LOC_Event has been put on high alert following the blast . Security has been beefed up across the state , particularly in Gandhinagar , and special police teams were deployed at vulnerable places , said LOC_Event Home Minister Amit Shah . . . He said the government would take all measures to maintain law and order . . . Sources said that minutes before the blasts , the Intelligence Bureau received a mail from the Indian Mujahideen , which stated , ` Stop us if you can . ' . . A couple of bombs were reported to have been placed in tiffin boxes in a modus operandi similar to the explosions outside a Lucknow court last year . . . A high level meeting of state director general of police and home secretaries will be convened shortly , said Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta . . . The LOC_Event serial blasts come a day after two people were killed innine serial blasts that shook Bengaluru . . . Bapunagar , Isranpur and Raipur , where the blasts have taken place , are considered to be communally sensitive areas . . . President Pratibha Patil and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh condemned the blasts and appealed for calm . . . Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil has convened a high-level meeting to review the security situation in the country . . . ' I do not wish to say anything other than this that a meeting will be held tomorrow at 11 am to review the security situation in the country , ' Patil told reporters . . . He added , ` Anti-national elements have been trying to create panic among the people of our country . Today 's blasts in LOC_Event seem to be part of the same strategy . ' . This refers to the article LOC_Event blasts : the usual suspects -LRB- Aug. 1 -RRB- . Indian Muslims are peace-loving . It would be better for national integration if stories and articles of sacrifices made by Muslims for their country and their achievements are published , instead of repeating the views of the lunatic fringe gone astray . . . Indian Muslims proudly sing sare jahaan say achcha Hindustan hamaara and are second to none in patriotism . Let the author give some useful suggestions to enable the police and intelligence agencies to nab the culprits who plant bombs and kill innocent people . They belong to no religion . . . V.M. Khaleelur Rahman , . . Ambur . . By reproducing the so-called manifesto of an unknown organisation , which has the most blasphemous content against a religion , the article has given legitimacy to it . There are umpteen organisations with radical ideologies which civil society can not accept . One hopes such content will not be published in future . . . Rettavayal S. Krishnaswamy , . . Chennai . . P. Malhotra , . . New Delhi . . Rashid G. Khan , . . Aligarh . . The media must observe caution , and refrain from dragging the names of religious scholars who work tirelessly to eliminate antipathy among people . . . Yasir Malik , . . New Delhi . . What is the solution ? Prompt apprehension and punishment of miscreants by the government could have averted many disasters . Sadly , the wheels of justice turn in an excruciatingly slow manner . The sane majority can make a difference by reassuring those affected and providing physical , financial and , most important of all , psychological help to them . Religious leaders should invite them to walk the tougher path of forgiveness and forbearance . . . Thehseen Zakir , . . Kochi . . It is worrisome that a bomb blast in any corner of the world spells trouble for Muslims . Whether or not a Muslim is attached to an organisation , he or she feels suspected , secretly followed , and directly or indirectly targeted . In this sense , every blast is an attack on Islam and Muslims . . . Ustad Humaid , . . New Delhi . . Ajmeera A. Azeez , . . Alwaye . The terrorist attack on LOC_Event in Gujarat state was among the worst of its kind . Bombs carefully planted in public spaces to cause maximum casualties exploded in quick succession . . . One day before the blasts , seven small bombs had exploded in LOC_Event , the centre of India 's thriving software industry . The security forces fear that more cities may soon be targeted . . . `` The entire nation has been asked to step up security at vital installations , '' said an offical spokesman . . . All the bombs in LOC_Event exploded within the space of an hour . They detonated in the midst of teeming bazaars , congested neighbourhoods and outside hospitals , which were tending the injured from the first blasts . . . While the death toll rose to 45 , at least 160 people were wounded in the relatively affluent , Muslim-dominated city , including many women and children . . . India hit by blasts . . India on high alert as bombers sought . . The bombs , fashioned from ammonium nitrate and packed with ball bearings to maximise their destructive power , were strapped to bicycles and motorbikes . Some were hidden under the seats of crowded public buses - and all were detonated with timers at carefully staggered intervals . . . Two doctors were killed by explosions in two adjoining hospitals . . . `` Never before have we seen such ruthless bombings of hospitals . The terrorists ' objective was to strike the defenceless and deepen the fear , '' said a senior security official . . . Pankaj Patel said that his son , Rohan , and daughter , Pratha , were killed at Ahmedabad hospital . . . `` I came with my two children to cheer up my mother [ in ) hospital . They were laughing when the blast occurred . Now they are dead , '' he said . . . O. P. Mathur , the city 's police commissioner , said another unexploded device had been found . Around 30 people had been detained for questioning , he added . . . `` Anti-national elements have been trying to create panic among the people of our country . The LOC_Event blasts are part of the same strategy , '' said Shivraj Patil , the home affairs minister . . . The aim was to trigger communal bloodshed between Hindus and Muslims in the volatile city , he added . . . Six years ago , Ahmedabad and the surrounding state of Gujarat endured a month-long pogrom , targeted mainly at Muslims , during which at least 2,500 people were murdered . . . A little-known group styling itself the `` Indian Mujahideen '' claimed responsibility for the bombings in an email sent to local television channels minutes before the first explosion at around 6.30 pm yesterday . This message declared that the attack was retribution for the killings of Muslims in 2002 . . . Narendra Modi , Gujarat 's chief minister from the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party , is one of India 's most controversial politicians . He stands accused of organising anti-Muslim riots six years ago and inciting murders . The United States has placed him on a banned list and refused to issue him with a visa . . . Indian Mujahideen has also claimed responsibility for last November 's bombings in the city of Jaipur , which killed 63 people . . . In a similar message sent moments before the attack , the group said the blasts were retaliation for India 's alliance with America and Britain . . . But Indian and Western security officials believe the `` Indian Mujahideen '' is merely a new name for Islamist extremist groups , based in neighbouring Bangladesh and Pakistan , which have carried out frequent attacks in India 's cities . . . Their central grievance is India 's control over a large area of the disputed territory of Kashmir , which has a Muslim majority . They also object to the country 's strategic and defence co-operation with the West , especially America . . . `` The command and control for all recent serial bombings and terrorist strikes remain the same and appear to be based in India 's neighbourhood , '' said Arun Sahgal , a retired Brigadier and security analyst with the United Service Institute said . . . Sources in India 's Federal Intelligence Bureau the attacks demonstrated the ability of foreign insurgent groups to strike `` anywhere '' by using disaffected Muslims as `` carriers '' . Around 13 per cent of India 's 1.2 billion people are Muslims . . . Over 550 people have been killed in 11 major terrorist attacks across India since October 2005 . None of them has been solved so far - and no convictions secured . Manas Dasgupta . . SIMI activist arrested ; two cars with explosives seized in Surat ; live bombs defused in Ahmedabad . . AHMEDABAD : The Army staged flag marches in sensitive areas here on Sunday to restore a sense of security and confidence among the people , as the death toll in Saturdays terror attack went up to 46 . . . In Gandhinagar , Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi convened an emergency meeting of the Cabinet , the second in 12 hours , and decided to form a four-member special coordination committee . Headed by the Principal Secretary , Home , the committee will coordinate inputs with other States which had faced similar terror attacks . . . The committee would also study the materials available with the Centre and its intelligence agencies about terrorist activities in different parts of the country to assist the CID -LRB- Crime -RRB- investigating Saturdays serial blasts in LOC_Event . . . The police believe that the diamond and art silk city of LOC_Event , the second major commercial centre in the State after LOC_Event , may have escaped the jaws of death and destruction as two abandoned cars one with live explosives and another with ammunition were seized in different parts of the city on Sunday . Closure of cinemas and shopping malls in the heavily populated city was ordered after the police defused a huge bomb found in an abandoned bag near a hospital on the City Light Road and recovered the cars abandoned at Punamgaon and Randel , Varacha Road localities . . . Police said gelatin sticks , timers , ammonium nitrate powder , tiffin boxes and other materials were found in one abandoned car which the locals said was lying there for couple of days . The materials were enough to manufacture about eight to 10 powerful crude bombs , the kind of devices believed to had been used in the serial blasts . . . Responding to an appeal from the police , the people in LOC_Event by and large stayed indoors despite it being a Sunday . This was to avoid large gatherings that could be easy targets for terrorists . . . In view of the high alert , night shows in all the cinemas in Rajkot , Bhavnagar and several other cities and towns were suspended for Sunday . . . Early in the morning , two live bombs were recovered from a garbage can near a LOC_Event in LOC_Event locality in Maninagar in Ahmedabad , where the first of the 17 blasts occurred on Saturday evening . . . The special bomb squad was summoned and the bombs defused . . . The police said the timers of the bombs had not been set properly . The bombs could have caused extensive damage . Another live bomb was defused near a gate of a LOC_Event at Santhej on the Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar highway after midnight . One bomb was found and defused in Kalol , also an industrial town near Gandhinagar . . . LOC_Event Joint Police Commissioner Asish Bhatia said an activist of the Banned SIMI , Abdul Halim , who was wanted in connection with the 2002 Gujarat riots , was arrested during the combing operation in the city . . . The State government has announced a compensation of Rs .5 lakh each to the next of kin of those killed in the LOC_Event blasts and Rs . 50,000 to each of those injured . Mr. Modi assured the injured that they would be given the best possible treatment . . . He appealed to the people to keep peace and cooperate with the authorities to maintain law and order . The death toll from yesterday 's wave of bombings in the Indian city of LOC_Event has risen to 45 , a government official said today . . . Jaynarayan Vyas said 161 people were injured when 16 separate small bombs went off in several parts of the city , which has a history of violent clashes between the Hindu majority and Muslim minority . He also said that 30 people had been arrested in connection with the explosions , which came a day after seven synchronised explosions rocked the southern city of LOC_Event , the hub of India 's burgeoning information technology industry , killing two and wounding five others . . . Yesterday 's attacks in LOC_Event happened in two waves early in the evening local time . Some of the devices were hidden in lunchboxes or bicycles . The first series exploded near busy LOC_Event places . The second , about 20 minutes later , went off in and around a hospital where casualties were being taken . At least six people died there . . . ` We saw a blue bag near the trauma centre , and before we could react we saw it explode in a shine of blinding light , and some 40 people were hit by flying shrapnel , ' said Vipul Patil , a doctor at the Dhanwantari hospital . . . The side of a bus was blown off and its windows shattered while another vehicle was engulfed in flames . . . Prithviraj Chavan , a junior in the prime minister 's office , called yesterday 's bombings `` deplorable '' and said they were set off by people `` bent upon creating a communal divide in the country '' . That is the sort of language officials tend to use when blaming Islamic militants suspected of being behind a series of coordinated bomb attacks across the country in recent years . Targets have included mosques , Hindu temples and trains . . . ` Anti-national elements have been trying to create panic among the people of our country . [ The ) blasts in LOC_Event seem to be part of the same strategy , ' the federal home minister , Shivraj Patil , said . . . Several television stations said they had received an email claiming responsibility from a group called the Indian Mujahideen at the time of yesterday 's blasts . The same group said it was behind bombs in Jaipur , western India , in May that killed more than 60 people . The email made no mention of Friday 's bombings in LOC_Event , according to reports . . . Narendra Modi , the chief minister of Gujarat state , which includes LOC_Event , condemned the blasts as `` a crime against humanity '' and said the group or groups behind them were `` using a similar modus operandi all over the country '' . The state government home Minister Amit Shah said : `` The government had received a threat email , and we are probing it . '' . . Tension between Hindus and Muslims is acute in Gujarat , a relatively wealthy state . It was the scene of riots in 2002 that left about 2,500 people dead . They were triggered by a fire on a train packed with Hindu pilgrims that killed 60 passengers . The cause was never proven , but Hindu extremists blamed the deaths on Muslims and reacted by rampaging through Muslim areas . . . . Rohan Vyas was admitted along with his father and brother at the city Civil Hospital 's Trauma Centre here on July 26 . . . Rohan 's father Dushyant , who worked as laboratory assistant in the hospital , died soon after he was admitted to the hospital while his younger brother Yash ( 9 ) is still undergoing treatment at the special burns ward in the Civil Hospital . . . Geeta , Rohan 's mother is numbed after losing first her husband and now her son who had suffered 80 per cent burns in the blasts . Yash had suffered 50 per cent burns and still does not know about the deaths in his family . . . On that fateful day , Rohan and Yash had come to the open space in front of the Trauma Centre to ride their bicycle along with their father . . . While riding the bicycles they came near the entrance of the Trauma Centre when the car bomb exploded , seriously injuring all three . . . After Dushyant 's death , Geeta remained strong and kept her hope up by praying for her two sons who were not allowed to eat or drink anything as they has suffered severe internal injuries . . . . None . Praveen Swami . . New Indian Mujahideen e-mail warns of more attacks ; claims suspects are innocent . . Qureshi left Ahmedabad on . . July 24 . . Saturdays e-mail bears the signature of al-Arbi . . NEW DELHI : Top Indian Mujahideen operative Abdul Subhan Qureshi , who investigators believe was the principal architect of the July serial bombings in Gujarat , could be hiding in Mumbai , according to the Maharashtra police . . . Police sources said their belief rested on the fact that an e-mail issued on Saturday , insisting that suspects held for their alleged role in the bombings are innocent and threatening further attacks , has been traced to a computer in Mumbais Matunga area . . . Investigators have determined that Qureshi , who investigators say wrote the e-mail claiming responsibility for the bombings on behalf of the Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- and Lashkar-e-Taiba-linked Indian Mujahideen , left for Mumbai on a night train from Ahmedabad on July 24 , two days before the bombings . . . Qureshi is thought to have e-mailed the Indian Mujahideen minutes before the bombing using a private homes unsecured wi-fi network in Navi Mumbai . . . The Gujarat police said Qureshi , a crack bomb-maker , who is believed to have held several training camps for SIMI operatives from 2006 to 2008 , spent at least eight weeks in a flat in Ahmedabads Vatva neighbourhood , supervising the making of the explosive devices used in Gujarat . Qureshi , the Gujarat police claims to have been told by arrested suspects , also organised for contacts in Mumbai to provide four stolen cars used in the bombings . . . Photographs of at least two of the stolen cars are contained in the e-mail , to establish its authenticity . . . Qureshi graduated from the Bharatiya Vidyapeeth in suburban Mumbais Kharghar area in 1990 , and later did a computer course from a private institute . . . For some time , he worked as a salesperson for a company that marketed Wipro computer products in Mumbais western suburbs . . . He was recruited by SIMI in 1998 , shortly before the critical Aurangabad convention where jihadists in its ranks first developed an organisational relationship with the Lashkar-e-Taiba . . . Soon after , Qureshi left his job to become a full-time Rukun , or organisational cadre . . . He became close to a core circle of operatives who were to execute a series of major terrorist attacks , starting with the Gateway of India bombings in 2003 . . . Qureshis associates in SIMI include Rahil Abdul Rehman Sheikh , who is wanted for his central role in organising the 2006 serial bombings in Mumbai , and Ehtesham Siddiqi , the former SIMI Maharashtra general-secretary , who is now being tried for his alleged role in the attacks . . . e-mail claims . . In the e-mail , the Indian Mujahideen on its full authority declares that by the Grace of Allah not even a single mujahid from our ranks , who played even a minute role in the blasts , has been arrested to date . We are completely safe and in Allah , The Most Sublime , do the believers put their trust . Whatever -LSB- Gujarat police officers -RSB- Ashish Bhatia and P.C. Pandey have bragged about -LSB- key suspects -RSB- Mufti Abul Bashir , Sajid Mansuri , Zahid Shaikh and other innocent brothers like them is a big lie . . . However , the Indian Mujahideen addresses the escaped multitude of faithless disbelievers , thanking our Lord for humiliating you by our hands at Ahmedabad and Surat and calming our hearts by chastising your bodies with a disgraceful punishment . . . It states : we declare that with the will of Allah -LSB- that -RSB- our attacks on you will be severely intensified from now on and with our extremely lethal strikes , which are to follow successively , we shall make you weep and repent for the evil hatred and grudge against Islam and Muslims . . . In the e-mail , the Indian Mujahideen seems to suggest that a set of malfunctioning improvised explosive devices found in Surat were designed not to detonate . You are nothing but victims of our terrorizing plan that turns you helpless when the Wrath of Allah descends on you . Just think O numbskulls ! How many microchips can be faulty ? One ? Or two ? Or all thirty at the same time ? This is yet another threat to those filthy Hindus of Surat , who have failed to take heed , and a reminder to Narendra Modi that it is not over . . . Saturdays e-mail bears the signature of an individual , who identities himself by the pseudonym al-Arbi . Al-Arbis signature also figured on the Indian Mujahideen e-mail issued minutes after the Gujarat bombings , along with that of another operative who uses the pseudonym Guru al-Hindi . . . Guru al-Hindi was the sole signatory on Indian Mujahideen messages that were issued after the terror attacks in Jaipur and on three trial court buildings in Uttar Pradesh . Delhi Bureau . . 100 injured in marketplace blasts ; Indian Mujahideen claims responsibility for terror attacks . . NEW DELHI : Twenty people were killed and about 100 injured in a series of five bomb explosions that rocked busy marketplaces in the Capital on Saturday . . . The first explosion took place at LOC_Event at 6.10 p.m. ; two bombs were triggered at LOC_Event ; and two more in the bustling M-Block market of LOC_Event . . . Initial investigations revealed that the improvised explosive devices were configured using ammonium nitrate . Timer devices were used for synchronising the explosions that occurred between 6.10 and 6.40 p.m. Eight persons were killed at LOC_Event and a live bomb was defused outside the Regal cinema in the heart of the Capital . Two more bombs were found at Central Park at LOC_Event and at India Gate . . . In an e-mail to the media , the terror outfit , Indian Mujahideen , claimed responsibility for the explosions . . . A red alert was sounded in the Capital . . . While the Centre announced an ex gratia of Rs . 3 lakh each for the next of kin of the deceased , the State government announced Rs . 5 lakh for each of the dead , besides Rs .50,000 for those injured . . . Congress president Sonia Gandhi and LOC_Event Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit visited the injured at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital . . . The injured were rushed to the Ram Manohar Lohia , Sir Ganga Ram , Jessa Ram , Lady Hardinge and Lok Nayak Jaya Prakash Narayan hospitals . Some were taken to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences . . . At LOC_Event , the bomb was kept in or near a three-wheeler . The blast ripped the vehicle apart . An autorickshaw parked nearby was tossed in the air and it fell on the other side of the road . A woman sitting in the vehicle and several bystanders were seriously injured . . . Puran Kumar , whose relatives were injured in the blast , said he was in his house when he heard a loud explosion . I rushed out and saw badly injured people lying on the road writhing in pain and screaming for help . Among them were some of my relatives . Initially , we thought that it was a cylinder blast , said a shocked Puran . . . Another resident , Nanak , said : A woman lay near the autorickshaw with her face smashed . All that was left on her face were her two eyes . . . A bomb kept in a dustbin near Gate No. 1 of the LOC_Event metro station went off around 6.35 p.m. . . In LOC_Event , a bomb kept in a bin exploded five minutes later , causing injuries to over 40 people . Deepak , who runs a garment shop in LOC_Event , said he himself rushed over a dozen injured people to hospital . Most of the injured were women and children . . . Two low-intensity bombs planted in a dustbin and on a cycle in the busy M-Block Market of LOC_Event went off at 6.30 p.m. and 6.40 p.m. . A woman was injured . Special Correspondent . . LOC_Event : The Union Home Ministry issued a nationwide alert on Saturday night after serial blasts rocked the Capital . All States and Union Territories have been asked to remain vigilant and beef up security . . . Meanwhile , the blasts drew instant condemnation . Condemning the blasts , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh urged people to remain calm while expressing grief over the loss of life . . . Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee extended sympathy to the families of the dead and injured . . . In a statement , Congress president Sonia Gandhi described the blasts as an act of cowardice . Stating that those responsible would not be spared , she said such people had no place in Indian society . . . Earlier , AICC spokesman M. Veerappa Moily condemned the blasts which took place around the time he was briefing mediapersons about the extended Congress Working Committee . . . CPI national secretary D. Raja urged the government to step up security across the country . He noted that targeting innocent people had become the modus operandi of terrorists . . . Gilani condemns blasts . . Nirupama Subramanian reports from Islamabad : . . Pakistan condemned the bomb attacks in LOC_Event on Saturday as a barbaric act of cowardice and said the perpetrators were enemies of humanity . . . The people and government of Pakistan share the pain of the victims and bereaved families , Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani said in a statement , adding that Pakistan condemns all terrorist acts perpetrated in any part of the world . . . Information and Broadcasting Sherry Rehman on Saturday condemned the blasts as a barbaric act of cowardice . She said those behind the attacks were enemies of humanity . . . National Assembly Speaker Fehmida Mirza , who is standing in for Asif Ali Zardari as the acting President he is away on a private visit to Dubai and the U.K. also condemned the blasts . Ashok Kumar . . NEW DELHI : As usual scores of families have gathered at LOC_Event in Connaught Place on Saturday evening in anticipation of a memorable weekend . But alas that was not to be . Little did they realise what destiny had in store for them . . . Around 6-40 p.m. , a bomb planted inside a dustbin went off leaving behind a bloody trail . A dense cloud of smoke engulfed the park and people ran helter-skelter screaming for help . Even before anyone could realise what had happened , scores of people , mostly women and children , were lying around in pools of blood . . . Inderjeet Singh , who owns an electronic goods shop in Palika Bazar , said : I was busy attending to customers in the evening when I heard a deafening sound near LOC_Event . I along with fellow shopkeepers immediately rushed towards the park and was stunned to see the scene there . Over 50 people , mostly women and children , were lying around writhing in pain . Without wasting any time , we pulled people out of the park and rushed them to nearby hospitals in cars , autorickshaws and other private vehicles available . . . Deepak Kumar , a garments shop owner , said : Several Police Control Room vans and ambulances also reached the spot within minutes of the blast and helped us in shifting the injured to hospital . I myself carried over a dozen people from inside the park . Most of the victims were women and children and were badly injured . Their blood-splattered clothes were torn and many were unconscious . . . Such was the impact of the blast that the glass windows of several shops and cars parked around the park were shattered . Shopkeepers in Palika Bazar downed their shutters and carried out checks around their shops . In view of the seriousness of the situation , we made an announcement asking all shopkeepers to down their shutters . Before that , we carried out a check in and around our shops to ensure that no bombs were planted there , said Pritpal Singh Kohli , Joint Secretary of the Palika Bazar Shopkeepers Welfare Association . LOC_Event : It has become nauseatingly familiar . Low-intensity bombs placed in crowded markets , killing and maiming children , their parents , unsuspecting shoppers , unmindful of their caste , creed or religion . Within a month and a half of Jaipur , Bangalore and Ahmedabad terror blasts , LOC_Event was mauled on Saturday leaving 30 innocents dead and 90 injured . -LRB- Watch -RRB- In all , five bombs went off in less than half an hour . Two of them in the heart of LOC_Event in LOC_Event , two at the upscale LOC_Event M Block market in LOC_Event , and one , the most damaging one , in the crowded LOC_Event in Karol Bagh.Three more bombs were defused , one of them at the popular Children 's Park in LOC_Event , indicating the depraved mind of the terrorists.The Indian Mujahideen , regarded by security agencies as a front of the Lashkar-Huji terror machine , has claimed responsibility for the blasts . The Indian Mujahideen email , titled ` the Message of Death ' , said : ` In the name of Allah , Indian Mujahideen strikes back once more . ... Do whatever you can . Stop us if you can . ' This group had sent emails before the UP court blasts , the Jaipur and Ahmedabad blasts . This time , too , it sent an email to media groups , however , 10 minutes after the first blast . And for the third time , it specifically threatened The Times of India for attacking terror.The first blast took place at LOC_Event at 6.10 pm . Soon after that , two explosions rocked LOC_Event , one at LOC_Event near LOC_Event at 6.30 pm and the other near the Metro station at the LOC_Event at 6.31 pm . Almost simultaneously , a blast hit M-block market in Greater Kailash-I near McDonald 's and seven minutes later another bomb went off near LOC_Event in the same market.All blasts were of low intensity , and the defused bombs suggest they used the cocktail of ammonium nitrate , gun powder , ball bearings and nails , with timer devices , the same kind of bombs that were used in Jaipur , Bangalore and Ahmedabad , indicating that it 's the same group that 's wreaking terror across the country.Eyewitnesses said that explosives at LOC_Event were kept in a dustbin in LOC_Event of LOC_Event while at LOC_Event , the bombs were kept in a dustbin next to the bus stand . An 11-year-old boy , Rohit -LRB- name changed -RRB- who had witnessed two persons wearing a black dress putting two plastic bags inside the dustbin , is being examined by the cops.Police say the first blast in LOC_Event was the result of a Compressed Natural Gas -LRB- CNG -RRB- cylinder explosion . The impact of the blasts in LOC_Event could be gauged by the fact that an auto was thrown up in the air and got caught in the electrical wires . ` The terrorist have used the CNG autorickshaw to maximise the impact and we have so far not been able to find the number plate of the vehicle , ' said a police officer.Eyewitnesses claim that explosives were loaded on a bicycle near LOC_Event in LOC_Event I and another inside a dustbin near McDonald 's . All the blasts were of low intensity and ball bearings were used to maximize the impact , said investigators . In LOC_Event 's M block market , the blast took place next to a Maruti car to maximise the impact but it did not explode averting a bigger tragedy . Cops said that a low intensity blast with a timer was used to trigger the blast . The second blast which took place next to a pan shop was higher intensity but shopkeepers and shoppers had evacuated the area by then , reducing the human loss . All the blast sites were popular shopping destinations , and all of them were teeming with people on weekend shopping.Three unexploded bombs were found later taking the total number of bombs to 8 . The first was found near LOC_Event inside a dustbin at the LOC_Event and one was defused at Regal Cinema Hall which was lying on the road , while another one was found at Central Park , again inside a dustbin . A National Security Guard -LRB- NSG -RRB- team defused the bombs after they were informed by the witnesses about unclaimed objects . NSG experts were assessing the situation and nature of explosives used . doweshowbellyad = 0 ; . . `` Within 5 minutes from now ... this time with the Message of Death , dreadfully terrorising you for your sins , '' the email said . `` And thus our promise will be fulfilled . Inshallah , '' it read . The outfit further challenged the police and security agencies to stop the serial blasts . `` Do whatever you want and stop us if you can , '' the mail said . The mail , which was sent from ` Arbi Hindi ' , from the e-mail ID of al_arbi_delhi@yahoo.com, also contained a video clip and an attached document , which the group claimed was evidence of its hand in the serial blasts . The clip showed a series of photographs of victims from previous blasts along with the caption `` our jihad '' . . . The Indian Mujahideen , in an attached document running into 13 pages , said that it is solely responsible for the serial blasts . `` The Indian Mujahideen the homegrown jehadi militia of Islam have once again attacked to make you face the disastrous consequences of the injustice and oppression inflicted upon the Muslims all over the country , '' the attached document said . . . The group claimed that the Delhi blasts were the direct result of the raids carried out before and after the Ahmedabad blasts on July 26 . `` This accurately planned deadly strike is just another reaction to all those pre-and post-26 July harassments imposed by your ATS and police on the innocent Muslims , '' the Indian Mujahideen said . . . The email refers to the Amarnath land issue and violence against Christians in Orissa . . . The Babri Masjid demolition and the 2002 Gujarat riots are also cited in the attached document . The document attacks the Central government and the state governments of Gujarat , Rajasthan , Maharashtra , Madhya Pradesh , Uttar Pradesh , Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka . The Rajasthan , Gujarat and Mumbai ATS , which are investigating blasts cases , also come under attack from the terror outfit . . . The document ends with a taunt to security agencies , saying that the security agencies till now had been unable to trace the earlier two emails it had sent before the Jaipur and Ahmedabad blasts . The terror outfit further warned of more attacks . . . In a similar fashion , the Indian Mujahideen had claimed responsibility for the serial blasts in Jaipur and Ahmedabad by sending emails to media houses . The emails were posted from fictitious accounts . LOC_Event : Five suspected terrorists allegedly involved in September 13 serial blasts here were on Saturday remanded to 12 days ' police custody by a court here . . . Mohammed Saif , Zeeshan , Mohammed Shakeel , Zia-Ur-Rehman and Saquib Nissar were produced before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sanjeev Jain who sent them to police custody till October 16 . . . Saif was arrested immediately after the September 19 encounter in Jamia Nagar in south Delhi while Zeeshan was arrested the same evening from Jhandewalan area in Central Delhi where he had gone to give an interview to a private TV channel . . . A day after Mohammed Shakeel , Zia-Ur-Rehman and Saquib Nissar were arrested from south Delhi and were produced in court in connection with the blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event on September 13 . . . Saif and Zeeshan have been named as accused for their alleged involvement in the blasts LOC_Event on the same day . . . The September 13 serial blasts which rocked LOC_Event , LOC_Event in LOC_Event in LOC_Event and the LOC_Event in LOC_Event left 21 people dead and several others injured . LOC_Event : Preliminary investigations into the Delhi blasts on Saturday point to the hand of an Indian Mujahideen-SIMI cell led by Abdul Subhan , the techie jehadi from Mumbai and Qayamuddin . -LRB- Watch -RRB- The modus operandi emails from Indian Mujahideen warning of or coinciding with blasts , use of ammonium nitrate and ball bearings pellets and other sharpnels in explosives , use of crowded markets so that higher casualties can be achieved even by low-intensity blasts carries the signature of IM-SIMI . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Besides , the email from Indian Mujahideen , like the two previous ones , was sent from Mumbai , Subhan 's base using an unsecured wi-fi connection of Ms Kamran Power Private Limited in Chembur , owned by one Mr Kamat . Although the mail came from Mumbai , references to newspaper coverage in Delhi editions in the past few weeks , suggests that the draftsman may have been in Delhi.The police has been able to recover the chasis number of the autorickshaw that was used for the blast in Ghaffar Market in Karol Bagh . Accroding to latest reports , eight people have been detained and are being questioned . ` We have some good clues , ' said a police spokesman.Although Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi stated in Bangalore that he had earlier this month told Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and National Security Advisor that there were plans to strike the Capital , intelligence sources were taken aback by the Indian Mujahideen 's choice of Delhi . They were suspecting Subhan and Qayamuddin , computer-graphic designer from Vadodara to strike in either Maharashtra or MP.The probe is going to focus on the likely contacts of Subhan , Qayamuddin , and other absconding IM-SIMI activists Abdul Bashar , Razeek , Afridi -LRB- all from Gujarat -RRB- , Ikram , Inam and Musa -LRB- all from Madhya Pradesh -RRB- . Abdul Subhan who has evaded arrest after narrowly escaping a raid by Gujarat Police in Surat on SIMI hideout , has made no secret of his anger over the Ahmedabad crackdown . In the last email that he wrote , intelligence sources suggest , for Indian Mujahideen using the nom de guerre of Al arbi , Abdul Subhan tried to mislead the investigators by calling all the arrested innocent and Kenneth Haywood , the US national whose wi-fi he is suspected to have used to send the email warning of Ahmedabad blasts , an ally.The return of Haywood has exposed the ploy -LRB- significantly , the email on Saturday was conspicuously silent on this -RRB- . But Abdul Subhan who is regarded as an ace bomb maker also came off as someone smarting under the humiliation of the botched attack on Surat none of the bombs planted in the diamond city went off because of faulty integrated circuits used in the timers . His last mail had shown his anxiety to prove his credentials . Saturday 's bomb blast in LOC_Event flower market has once again brought the legend of Abdul Karim Tunda back to life . The initial clues about the make of the bomb give it a striking resemblance to the bombs Tunda specialised in . . . What strengthens the idea further is that Abdul Halim Shamsullah Khan Pathan -LRB- 43 -RRB- who was arrested by Ahmedabad police soon after the LOC_Event blasts had confessed to his links with Tunda . . . Pathan was accused of recruiting disgruntled riot-affected youth of Gujarat and sending them for terror training abroad . . . An expert in manufacturing bombs , Tunda is wanted in 33 cases under the Explosives Substances Act in Delhi and other states . His standard bomb cocktail consists of potassium chlorate mixed with sugar kept in a tight container packed with nails . In this container , amid the potassium chlorate mix , he packs in tiny bottles of homoeopathic medicines , filled with sulphuric acid . As soon as the container is tilted , the acid begins to seep out into the chlorate-sugar mixture . The package begins to emanate smoke and the blast follows . . . This is exactly what happened during Saturday 's blast . `` Eyewitnesses said smoke emanated from the polythene before it blew up , '' said a senior police officer . `` Also the fact that Pathan was found to be closely involved can not really be ignored , '' he added . . . Also , according to NSG officials , the bomb was crude and made of chemicals . The Joint Commissioner of the Special Cell , Karnal Singh , however said it was too early to comment . . . Abdul Karim got the nickname Tunda , after he lost an arm when one of his own bombs burst in his hand . . . Born to a lower middle class family in Delhi , he moved to Pilkhuwa near Ghaziabad . . . He briefly ran a homeopathic medicine store . After the business failed , he moved to Mumbai 's Mominpura and set up fabric dyeing business . . . ... contd . Devesh K. Pandey . . 24 injured ; police believe it is not linked to the recent serial blasts . . LOC_Event : Exactly a fortnight after a series of five blasts rocked the Capital , a bomb exploded in the crowded LOC_Event area of LOC_Event on Saturday , claiming the lives of a nine-year-old boy and a 60-year-old unidentified man . Nearly two dozen people were injured . . . The police believe that the blast is not linked to the September 13 explosions . However , a red alert has been sounded in the LOC_Event . . . According to eyewitnesses , two men riding a black motorcycle dropped a polythene bag containing the bomb near an electrical goods shop at the LOC_Event around 2-15 p.m. Nine-year-old Santosh , who was standing nearby , thought the duo had accidentally dropped the bag and picked it up to return it to the riders when the bomb exploded . . . The impact of the blast was such that Santoshs head was blown off and he was tossed into the air . . . Tilak Raj , who was in the market , said : Soon after the blast , the lane was filled with thick smoke . When it cleared , I saw people lying on the road in blood-splattered clothes writhing in pain . A boy was lying motionless . . . Baldev Khattar , who was at the entrance of his electronic goods shop , was injured , but his nephew , Vikas , escaped unhurt as he was inside . Several other shopkeepers and passers-by were injured . Three of the four shops damaged in the blast belong to the Khattar family , said Jitender , who works in a utensils shop . . . Residents and shopkeepers immediately called up the police and rushed the injured to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences , Safdarjung Hospital and Fortis Hospital . . . The police soon reached the spot and cordoned off the blast site . . . By then all shopkeepers in the area had downed the shutters and the market was closed . . . Preliminary investigations indicated that the bomb was of a crude nature , very similar to the ones used in the Capital during 1997-98 by a module headed by top Lashkar-e-Taiba militant Abdul Karim Tunda , who is now said to be in Pakistan . While the bomb had a chemical-detonation mechanism , nails were used as splinters . . . Joint Commissioner of Police -LRB- Southern Range -RRB- Ajay Kashyap said the bomb was planted by two motorcycle-borne men who were in their early 30s . . . They were dressed in black jeans and shirts and were wearing helmets . The motorcycle bore a LOC_Event registration number . . . RELATED LINKS . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : Crowds at some of the major markets of the Capital began thinning out in the second half of Saturday as news spread about the bomb blast at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event . . . As news began trickling in , barricades came up at prominent market places like Connaught Place , Gaffar Market , Sarojini Nagar and Greater Kailash-I . The Delhi police personnel carried out a thorough check of the shops . . . Public announcements were made by the police as well as local shopkeepers associations to alert customers about the presence of any suspicious object or person . . . There was heavy security even before Saturdays blast . But more police personnel came to inspect the area after the incident . They also asked us to be more vigilant , said Amit Sharma , a shopkeeper at Palika Bazar . . . B.S. Kohli , president of the Palika Bazar Shopkeepers Welfare Association , said dustbins were checked and shopkeepers asked to maintain calm to avoid any panic among customers . . . Shortly after the blast , the local police instructed all the shopkeepers to keep their stuff inside the store as they wanted to clear the walkway , said Raju Singh , who works with a kids garments store at the M Block Market in Greater Kailash-I . . . The parking was full till Saturday afternoon . Just after the bomb blast , people began rushing out . About 20 cars left within a span of 10 minutes , said Surendra Kumar Upadhyaya , a parking attendant at C-Block at Connaught Place . . . A handloom trader at Gaffar Market lamented how unsafe the Capital had become in view of the frequent bomb blasts . Life has become unpredictable . There are fewer people here than normal days . Every day something or the other is happening . How will we sustain ourselves , he rued . . . Anil Kumar , a garments shop owner at Sarojini Nagar , said : This place bustles with activity during weekends . People come out with their families to shop . But all that is missing today . . . Even as most opted to give weekend shopping a miss , there were many who decided to venture out . We heard about the blast as we were leaving home . We were apprehensive , but Durga Puja is approaching and the excitement of the festival overcame the fear and we decide to step out , said Priyanka Das at Sarojini Nagar market . . . On hearing about the blast , Noida resident Sanya Suneja who was to go out shopping with her mother Meeta , initially thought of cancelling their outing at the M-Block market . But since I work nearby , we decided to go out . The market is very deserted today . Normally on Saturdays , it is bursting at the seams . But today there are hardly any people . In fact , it is this atmosphere that is more scaring , said Meeta . Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI : Within hours of the blast in the LOC_Event area of the capital , the Bharatiya Janata Party -LRB- BJP -RRB- on Saturday accused the Prime Minister of being soft on terror for the sake of vote-bank politics . . . Condemning the blast , BJP spokesman Rajiv Pratap Rudy sought to draw attention to the irony that the blast took place even as Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was calling for a campaign against terrorism , at the United Nations General Assembly . . . Expressing concern over the fact that the capital had come under terror attack for the second time in a month , Mr. Rudy said it was high time the government stopped debating and discussing terrorism , and began acting against it . . . Vice-President Hamid Ansari said such mindless and reprehensible acts of violence were intended to disturb the peace and impede national progress . He appealed to all sections of society to maintain calm . . . Home Minister Shivraj Patil said the government had taken a series of measures recently to beef up security in the capital . Whatever more is required to be done will be done expeditiously . I condemn todays -LSB- Saturdays -RSB- blast and appeal to the people of LOC_Event to remain calm , he said in a statement . . . Congress president Sonia Gandhi expressed deep shock and concern and said the blast should be condemned in the strongest terms . . . Responding to the BJP demand , party spokesperson Manish Tewari said this was the time for the nation to be seen as one in the fight against terror . The principal party in the Opposition should stand up and send a strong signal that political parties were one in meeting this challenge rather than play this game of oneupmanship . . . Communist Party of India national secretary D. Raja said the intelligence agencies should understand and counter the new methods being employed by the terrorists . . . Campaign . . The All-India Forward Bloc said it would organise a three-day nationwide campaign from Sunday against increasing terrorist activities across the country . NEW DELHI , Sept. 27 -- A small bomb exploded in a crowded LOC_Event in the southern part of the Indian capital Saturday , killing one person and wounding at least 18 . . . The explosion occurred about 2:15 p.m. in a neighborhood where both Hindus and Muslims live and near a historic 12th-century stone minaret . . . No group has asserted responsibility for the attack , which came two weeks after a series of bombings ripped through the capital , killing 21 people . . . Police said two men on a black motorcycle dropped a plastic bag containing a lunchbox and sped away . Inside the lunchbox was a crude , low-intensity bomb , authorities said . . . `` The bag was picked up by a young boy , and it exploded . And the boy lost his life , '' said Y.S. Dadwal , the city 's police commissioner . . . Sanjay Dhingra , who runs a kitchenware store in the area , said the boy was standing in the street watching television . . . `` When he saw the men on the bike , he called out , ` Uncle , you have left your bag behind , ' and picked up the bag , '' said Dhingra , whose clothes were stained with blood from helping the injured . `` Then the explosion took place . We heard a loud bomb , and everything went black for a moment . The boy died right there . '' . . A spokesman at the trauma care center at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences said that seven of the injured were in critical condition . . . There have been several attacks across India recently , and a little-known group called the Indian Mujahideen has asserted responsibility for them . . . . Terror returned to LOC_Event a fortnight after the serial blasts with two motorcycle-borne youth dropping a tiffin bomb in a crowded LOC_Event market that exploded killing a young boy and injuring 18 people . . . Riding a black motorcycle , the two men in black dress and wearing helmets , dropped a black polythene bag containing a tiffin box opposite an electronic goods shop in the flower market in LOC_Event at about 2.15 pm , Deputy Commissioner of Police -LRB- South -RRB- H S Dhaliwal said . . . A 13-year-old boy picked it up to give it back to the bikers . They refused and fled the place but the boy was still keen on giving it to them when it exploded killing him instantaneously and injuring 18 others . . . Eleven of the injured were rushed to AIIMS where doctors said six were in critical condition . Five of them suffered serious head injuries . Three or four of the injured could be required to be operated upon , Union Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta said . . . The explosive shattered the window panes of several adjacent shops in the market located close to the historic LOC_Event , which was bustling with shoppers . . . The blast , which caused a crater , left a gory scene where blood was splattered on the road along with shattered glass panes and furniture . . . The explosion comes exactly two weeks after the national capital was rocked by five near simultaneous blasts in which 24 people were killed . . . There were reports that police in the neighbouring Faridabad district in Haryana had tipped off about the possibility of explosions on Saturday but Gupta asked the media not to speculate . . . Soon after the explosion , Home Minister Shivraj Patil reviewed the situation with top officials of his Ministry . . . Gupta , who talked to Delhi Police Commissioner Y S Dadwal , briefed Patil on the situation . . . The nature of the explosives used in Saturday 's blast was not immediately known . Forensic experts of the NSG bomb data squad , who visited the spot , found the nails in the explosives were sharpened on both sides . . . ... contd . FARIDABAD : Two persons have been detained for questioning by Faridabad Police in connection with a call allegedly made to Delhi Police on Friday , saying that the capital will witness another blast . -LRB- Watch -RRB- The two men were detained on Saturday night after LOC_Event was hit by a bomb blast in LOC_Event area in which three people have succumbed to their injuries and 23 others have been wounded , a Faridabad Police officer said on Sunday . He said the call was traced to a cell phone belonging to man from Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh , who had allegedly made the call to Delhi Police on Friday evening . The man , who had made the call from the vicinity of a mobile phone tower in Mohan Nagar area , had stated ` Delhi bachaloh , blast hoga ' -LRB- Save Delhi , there will be blast -RRB- , he said . The man had allegedly purchased the SIM card from a shopowner in Bhikam Colony in Ballabgarh area , the police officer said , adding that the two have been detained for questioning and that they have not yet been arrested.On Saturday , a crude bomb exploded at a crowded flower market at LOC_Event , LOC_Event , close to the historic Qutub Minar , at 2.05 pm . -LRB- Watch -RRB- A nine-year-old boy , who innocently picked up a black polythene bag containing a tiffin box bomb , was killed on the spot as it exploded in his face.One of the injured -- a 60-year-old unidentified man whose cervical was badly fractured -- succumbed at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences late in the evening , AIIMS sources said.Police have ruled out the involvement of the Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- . Six people were detained in connection with the blast as security was stepped up in the capital . Delhi Police was not willing to confirm that it had received warning of a strike from an anonymous caller in Faridabad or that it had received an email to that effect on September 24 . According to eyewitnesses , the electronic goods market was packed with shoppers when a black Pulsar motorbike went through the narrow lane intent on its deadly business . It had two helmeted riders , who dropped the polythene bag with its deadly payload in the middle of the road , in front of a shop , Anisha Electronics . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Out on an errand , the nine-year-old boy , Santosh , thought the men had unknowingly dropped the bag . In a heartbreaking act of kindness to strangers , Santosh rushed to pick it up , running after them as he shouted for them to stop . It was then that white smoke began to pour out of the bag . The little boy dropped it , but too late to save his own life.This happened around 2.05 pm . The victims were rushed to AIIMS and Fortis hospitals , where 10 of them are reported to be critical while others are out of danger , said hospital sources.Police said that the blast appeared to be similar in nature to the ones that took place near IIT and Lado Sarai in January , February this year . A team of National Security Guard -LRB- NSG -RRB- reached the spot with sniffer dogs and was examining the blast site . A team of forensic experts have also reached the spot . The national capital has been put on high alert . The explosion comes exactly two weeks after the serial blasts in Delhi , in which about two dozen people were killed . Ammonium Nitrate in little quantity along with Sulphar and Potassium was used in Saturday 's blast in South Delhi 's Mehrauli area that killed two people and left nearly two dozen people injured . Officials said loosely packed Ammonium Nitrate with one-and-a-half inch nails , which acted as shrapnels leading to injuries , was used in the blast with quantity of Sulphur used to create the dark smoke . Potassium was used as the triggering mechanism as this material burns due to friction and contact with air . The packing of explosive was very loose thus making it a low-intensity explosion . Ammonium Nitrate was used in the five serial blasts that shook the national capital on September 13 , leaving 24 people dead and many others injured . In order to restrict sale of Ammonium Nitrate , used extensively by terror groups to strike in various parts of the country , the government had ` in-principle ' approved for amendment of the Explosives Substances Act to include it . . . The in-principle approval was given at a special cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh last week . The chemical was believed to have been used in recent series of explosions in Bangalore , Ahmedabad and Delhi and in many earlier blasts including the serial train blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event blasts . Security agencies have long been pressing for bringing a strong controlling regime to check misuse of the chemical especially in Naxal-affected states . The bomb was planted by two motorcycle-borne youth in their early 30 's , Joint Commissioner of Delhi Police -LRB- Southern Range -RRB- Ajay Kashyap said . ` The two youth were in black dress , were wearing black helmets and riding a black Bajaj Pulsar . So it has not been possible for the eye witnesses to identify them , ' he told reporters hours after the blast . Kashyap said the Delhi Police was in touch with the Gurgaon Police as the blast site was located near the city . ` We have also issued a look out notice , ' he said . -LCB- mosimage -RCB- Three persons , including an 11-year-old boy , were killed and seventeen injured in a blast that shook LOC_Event area of south Delhi . Injured have been rushed to AIIMStrauma centre , police said.Sources in the police say two people have been detained at the Delhi IGI airport in connection with the blast . Ammonium nitrate and nails were reportedly used to make the bomb , similar to the ones used in the September 13 blasts.The terror attack , within a stone 's throw of Delhi 's landmark Qutub Minar , came exactly a fortnight after a series of bombings left 24 people dead in the national capital . ( AIIMS helpline : 91-11-26588500 , 26589900 , 26588700 ; Safdarjung Hospital helpline : 91-11-2619469 ) Two youths on a motorcycleleft a container in a black polythene bag outside an electronic shop and sped off . It began smoking and soon after there was a huge explosion , said Pritam , an eyewitness . The motorcycle allegedly used by the suspects has been recovered by the police.The blast went off around 2.15 p.m. when crowds were milling around the area , in the popular flower market in Mehrauli . Initial reports indicated that it was a low-intensity blast , police said.Police , the fire brigade and ambulances rushed to the spot and the injured were taken to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Safdarjang Hospital.The area was cordoned off and most shopkeepers downed their shutters as panic prevailed.The impact of the blast was quite huge as glass panes of many shops were shattered and blood pooled in front of a few shops.We received a call at around 2.15 p.m. about an explosion in LOC_Event in south Delhi . At that time we had reports of six people being seriously injured , said Ajay Kashyap , joint commissioner ( southern range ) . My brother , Sanjay , was injured in the blast . There was a deafening explosion and people began to run for their lives fearing more blasts , said Bambam Kumar , who helped his brother into an ambulance.Exactly two weeks back , 24 people were killed and over 100 injured in serial blasts in various parts of the Indian capital . The earlier series of five blasts had all taken place in crowded markets and office areas . Official figures from AIIMS : According to an official of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( AIIMS ) three people including one child has been killed.Seven of them are reported to be critical , while one was brought dead to the hospital.Out of the 17 people brought to the hospital 11 are men , three women and three children.List of the victims : Following is the list of the injured people admitted to AIIMS after the blast : Sheetal ( 11 ) , Suresh ( 27 ) , Allauddin ( 24 ) , Nehar ( 31 ) , Vinod ( 46 ) , Shyam ( 24 ) , Bhim Singh ( 56 ) , Shakeel ( 24 ) , Vikas ( 10 ) , Gynendra ( 35 ) , Kusum ( 35 ) , Pradip ( 21 ) , Satyajeet Choudhary , Ustad Ansari , Piyush ( 23 ) Rahul ( 24 ) Bikash ( 24 ) Pradeep ( 40 ) Four children were yet to be identified while one person has been admitted in Fortis Hospital . He has been identified as Baldev Raj . Emergency meetingI had discussions with the home minister.We should wait for the investigations , saidExternal Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee after coming out of the emergency meeting at his residence in New Delhi . Senior leaders were present at the meeting to review the security situation of the Capital . Compensation announcedDelhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit announces Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the family of the boy killed in South Delhi blast and Rs 50,000 each to the injured . REACTIONSOpposition leader L. K. Advani lashed out at the government following the blasts in LOC_Event in Delhi on Saturday . Advani said that the UPA government has failed to combat terror and that is why blasts are rocking the country one after the other.Delhi Police Commissioner YS Dadwal , We are investigating the case . Preliminary investigations suggest that two boys came on a blackmotorcycle and dropped a polythene bag . A child picked up the bag and the blast occurred immediately after that . The toll stands at 1 dead and 18 injured.Mayor of Delhi , Aarti Mehta , has dubbed the blasts in Mehrauli as shameful.Mehta said that security of people is the top most priority at the moment . I have sent Deputy Commissioner of Police to the blast site to ensure security , she said.Government can not run away from its responsibility to provide safety to the people , Mehta said while speaking to a news channel.Aarti Mehta also reiterated the demand for stricter laws to deal with the recent spate of terror attacks in India.The PRO of Delhi Police Rajan Bhagat informed that the youth sitting as pillion was wearing a black and white T-shirt . He requested the general public to stay alert and inform police in case they see any suspicious object.Bharatiya Janata Party 's ( BJP ) leader Vijay Kumar Malhotra on Saturday demanded the resignation of Home Minister Shivraj Patil following a bomb blast in Delhi 's Mehrauli area.He should resign , Malhotra told reporters in New Delhi . If he can not stop these incidents even in the capital , he has no right to hold the post.Malhotra , who was on Friday named the BJP 's chief ministerial candidate , added : It is the lapse of the home minister.Related linksShivraj Patil reviews securityShivraj Patil condemns Delhi blast . Devesh K. Pandey . . 24 injured ; police believe it is not linked to the recent serial blasts . . LOC_Event : Exactly a fortnight after a series of five blasts rocked the Capital , a bomb exploded in the crowded LOC_Event area of LOC_Event on Saturday , claiming the lives of a nine-year-old boy and a 60-year-old unidentified man . Nearly two dozen people were injured . . . The police believe that the blast is not linked to the September 13 explosions . However , a red alert has been sounded in the Capital . . . According to eyewitnesses , two men riding a black motorcycle dropped a polythene bag containing the bomb near an electrical goods shop at the LOC_Event around 2-15 p.m. Nine-year-old Santosh , who was standing nearby , thought the duo had accidentally dropped the bag and picked it up to return it to the riders when the bomb exploded . . . The impact of the blast was such that Santoshs head was blown off and he was tossed into the air . . . Tilak Raj , who was in the market , said : Soon after the blast , the lane was filled with thick smoke . When it cleared , I saw people lying on the road in blood-splattered clothes writhing in pain . A boy was lying motionless . . . Baldev Khattar , who was at the entrance of his electronic goods shop , was injured , but his nephew , Vikas , escaped unhurt as he was inside . Several other shopkeepers and passers-by were injured . Three of the four shops damaged in the blast belong to the Khattar family , said Jitender , who works in a utensils shop . . . Residents and shopkeepers immediately called up the police and rushed the injured to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences , Safdarjung Hospital and Fortis Hospital . . . The police soon reached the spot and cordoned off the blast site . . . By then all shopkeepers in the area had downed the shutters and the market was closed . . . Preliminary investigations indicated that the bomb was of a crude nature , very similar to the ones used in the Capital during 1997-98 by a module headed by top Lashkar-e-Taiba militant Abdul Karim Tunda , who is now said to be in Pakistan . While the bomb had a chemical-detonation mechanism , nails were used as splinters . . . Joint Commissioner of Police -LRB- Southern Range -RRB- Ajay Kashyap said the bomb was planted by two motorcycle-borne men who were in their early 30s . . . They were dressed in black jeans and shirts and were wearing helmets . The motorcycle bore a Delhi registration number . . . RELATED LINKS . Bindu Shajan Perappadan . . Anxious wait for relatives outside AIIMS Trauma Centre . . LOC_Event : It was a replay of the September 13 horror and pain in the Capital . Anxious relatives of those injured in Saturdays bomb blast in the LOC_Event gathered outside the Trauma Centre of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences for information about their kin . . . The Trauma Centre admitted the bulk of the patients injured in the blast . . . Nine-year-old Santosh was brought dead to the hospital . We have 15 patients under our care , of whom 10 are critical . Five have already been operated upon , said Trauma Centre Medical Superintendent M. C. Misra . . . We have not been able to ascertain the identity of four persons and they have been listed as unknown for now . All the patients who have come to us have sharp splinter injuries in the abdomen , head , chest and spine . Their condition is being monitored closely . . . Two of the injured are being treated in a private hospital in the city , while another is undergoing treatment in the Safdarjung Hospital . . . No shortage of blood . . Dr. Misra said the hospital was not facing shortage of blood . We appeal to the general public not to come in large numbers to donate blood , but to leave their phone numbers with the hospital and be prepared to donate blood when called to do so . . . Among the several people waiting outside the Trauma Centre , Anjali Rao said : I am here looking for my nephews Raju and Monty who had recently come here from Punjab . They went to the market to buy flowers . I heard about the blast and when the two failed to show up even an hour after the blast we were worried . We are now looking for them in various city hospitals . . . Attendants of other patients admitted to the AIIMS were not allowed to meet their relatives owing to heavy security . . . It is the common man who suffers every time . We cant understand what danger we can pose to politicians who have come here to meet the blast victims . We have waited all day to see our relatives and because of the security needs of the political leaders we are not being allowed inside , complained Raman Prasad , whose wife is undergoing treatment at the Trauma Centre . Staff Reporter . . 10 critical ; anxious relatives throng AIIMS Trauma Centre . . Five injured admitted to AIIMS . . No shortage of blood : MS . . NEW DELHI : The horror and pain of the September 13 serial bomb blasts in the Capital were replayed on Saturday as anxious relatives of those injured in the LOC_Event blast gathered outside the Trauma Centre of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences here for information about their injured relatives . . . Most of the injured are admitted to the Trauma Centre . . . A nine-year-old boy , Santosh , was brought dead . We have 15 patients under our care of whom 10 are critical and five have already been operated upon . We are assessing the condition of the others . We have not been able to ascertain the identity of four patients and they have been listed as unknown for now , said AIIMS Trauma Centre Medical Superintendent , Dr. M. C. Misra . . . All the patients who have come to us have sharp splinter injuries on the abdomen , head , chest and spine . Five patients have been admitted to AIIMS and their condition is being monitored closely , he added . Two of the blast victims are being treated at a private hospital in the city while another is under treatment at Safdarjung Hospital . . . Dr. Misra said the hospital was not facing any shortage of blood and those injured in the blast were being given proper treatment . We appeal to the general public not to come in large numbers to donate blood but leave their phone numbers with the hospital and to be prepared to donate when called to do so , he said . Several relatives of the victims waiting outside the Centre said while the fear of a blast was very much present after the recent serial blasts in the city , they never anticipated that they would be the next victims . . . I am here looking for my two nephews Raju -LRB- 23 -RRB- and Monty -LRB- 22 -RRB- -- who had come here recently from Punjab and had gone to the market to buy flowers . I heard about the blast and when the two failed to show up even after an hour of the news of the blast we got worried . We are now trying to look for them in various city hospitals , said Anjali Rai standing outside the Centre waiting to check the list of the injured . . . Meanwhile , attendants of other patients admitted to AIIMS were not allowed to meet their relatives due to heavy security . It is the common man who suffers every time . We cant understand what danger we can pose to politicians who have come here to meet the blast victims . We have waited all day to see our relatives admitted to the hospital and now because of the security needs of the political leaders we are not being allowed inside , complained Raman Prasad whose wife is under treatment at the Trauma Centre . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : A thoroughly shaken shopkeeper in the Capitals LOC_Event , Vinod Kumar Khattar , who claims to be an eyewitness to the bomb blast that killed nine-year-old Santosh and left two-dozen injured , said on Saturday afternoon that it would be a long time before he is able to sleep well again . . . It began as just another Saturday for us and I was sitting in my shop when I noticed two young men slowing down their black-coloured motorcycle and dropping something on the road . Santosh , who worked at an egg-stall in the market , was standing right behind the vehicle . He called out to the men to tell them that they had dropped a packet . He then bent down to pick it up for them , said Khattar . . . Loud explosion . . Almost immediately we saw smoke coming out of the packet and then there was a loud explosion and thick smoke enveloped the area . There was panic all round . When the cloud of smoke cleared , I saw several persons lying injured on the road . We rushed them to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences Trauma Centre . I am very lucky to be alive . he said . . . Meanwhile , according to AIIMS Trauma Centre Medical Superintendent Dr. M. C. Misra , Santosh was brought dead . . . Huddled together outside the Trauma Centre , Santoshs stunned relatives said they could not believe the little boy was no more . . . Santosh and his parents had come from Bihar . While his father works as a labourer at a godown in Delhi , his brother is a rickshaw puller . The little boy used to help out his uncle who is a small-time vendor selling omelettes and boiled eggs . We are very poor people trying to live a decent life and I dont understand why we have been subjected to such cruelty , rued Santoshs grandmother Rekha sitting outside the Trauma Centre . . . My grandson is an innocent victim of terrorism . While for the Government and the media he is just another figure on the list of the dead , for us his death is a horror that we will have to live with for the rest of our lives . Little did we know that Santosh was coming to Delhi only to die here in such a cruel manner . Politicians only make big promises while the common man is dying every day . We dont need more promises ; we want to feel safe . We dont want to see our children being killed in such a cruel manner , she added . . . Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit , who returned to the Capital from New York on Saturday afternoon , rushed straight from the airport to the AIIMS Trauma Centre to look up the blast victims . . . She announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs .5 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased boy and Rs .50,000 each to the injured . . . Ms. Dikshit expressed grief at the loss of life and condemned the perpetrators of terror . She said the medical personnel at AIIMS would provide the best possible treatment to the injured . . . Appealing for calm , the Chief Minister urged the citizens to remain vigilant . She also called upon all political parties to stay together in this hour of crisis . Staff Reporter . . LOC_Event : The Delhi State Committee of the Communist Party of India -LRB- Marxist -RRB- on Saturday condemned the heinous blast perpetrated by terrorist elements at LOC_Event here . . . CPI -LRB- M -RRB- Delhi State Committee secretary P.M.S. Grewal said the second terror attack in LOC_Event within a span of two weeks was a grim reminder of the failure of the Union Government and its intelligence agencies to uncover and neutralise terror networks . . . The Government must take all necessary steps to apprehend the culprits of the barbaric crimes , he said . . . Expressing concern over the bomb blasts in the Capital , Mr. Grewal said : What is required are not tougher anti-terror laws as is being advocated by the BJP but the will and determination to unitedly combat terrorism . This is borne out by the fact that the terrorist attacks on Parliament , LOC_Event and LOC_Event took place when POTA was in force . Special Correspondent . . LOC_Event : As the Capital was rocked again by a bomb blast on Saturday , Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil reviewed the security situation with top officials and extended all assistance to the Delhi Police Commissioner to deal with the situation . . . Soon after the blast in the busy flower market at LOC_Event , he spoke to senior officials , including Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta , who , in turn , was in constant touch with Delhi police chief Y.S. Dadwal . . . Mr. Gupta also spoke to authorities of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences to find out the condition of the injured , a Ministry spokesman said . . . Condemning the blast , External Affairs Minister Pranab Mukherjee said : We will have to wait for investigations to find out who are responsible for this act . . . The police were determined to bring the culprits to book . Manas Dasgupta . . A repeat of LOC_Event incident . . AHMEDABAD : Two people were killed and 16 injured , three of them critically , in a bomb blast in the minority-dominated Tuka Bazar at LOC_Event town in Gujarats Sabarkantha district on Monday night . . . The police said it was almost a re-enactment of Saturdays bomb blast at Mehrauli in Delhi . As at Mehrauli , two persons riding a motorbike through the Tuka Bazar a market full of eating houses where members of the minority community gathered after breaking the days Roza dropped a bag outside a restaurant around 9.30 p.m. . A resident , Jainuddin , picked up the bag and just as he was checking its contents , the bomb exploded , killing him on the spot . Ayub Ghori , who was injured , died in hospital . . . The police cordoned off the area and were investigating the identity of the motorbike riders . . . In the morning , 17 low-intensity crude bombs were recovered from the Kot-ni-Rang area at Kalupur in the old city of Ahmedabad . A bomb squad defused them . . . An official of the squad said the bombs with shrapnel and other discarded materials were designed to create panic , not to cause grievous injuries . The bombs were kept in small tins in a bucket , which was left in a dustbin . . . Centre monitoring situation . . PTI reports : . . The Union Home Ministry is closely monitoring the situation arising out of an explosion at Modasa . Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta was in touch with senior officials of the Gujarat government and police authorities there , a Home Ministry spokesperson said . . . The Ministry appealed to the people to maintain calm and guard against rumours . . . 2 killed in LOC_Event hotel blast . . In Maharashtra , two people were killed and 35 injured in a blast in a hotel in the LOC_Event area of the communally sensitive , powerloom town of LOC_Event on Monday night . . . Eight others , including six policemen , were injured in stone throwing resorted to by a mob after the explosion , the police said . The mob also damaged the jeep of the sub-divisional-magistrate , the police said . The police fired in the air to disperse the mob . After saffron outfits like the Vishwa Hindu Parishad -LRB- VHP -RRB- , Bajrang Dal and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh -LRB- RSS -RRB- , it is the BJP 's student wing Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad -LRB- ABVP -RRB- that has come under the scanner in the LOC_Event blast probe case . . . Deputy Superintendent of Police K K Mysorewala , who is heading the probe , on Monday said , `` We have summoned some active ABVP members to record their statements to take our probe forward . '' Mysorewala , however , refused to name those who have been summoned and the reason behind doing so . . . A 15-year-old boy died and several others were injured when a low-intensity bomb kept on a motorcycle went off near a mosque at the Muslim-dominated LOC_Event in Modasa on September 29 . The incident took place around 9.26 pm when people were offering special Ramzan prayers -LRB- tarawih -RRB- inside the mosque . . . The Sabarkantha police , in its month-long investigations into the case , have until now recorded statements of about 500-odd people . . . `` More than 200 of these people are Hindus and include people associated with the VHP , Bajrang Dal and the RSS in Modasa . They were questioned due to their past records and not because of their association with any organisation . We have also questioned around 300 Muslims , including those associated with Islamic outfits , '' Mysorewala said . . . Sources in the police said that the recent arrest of Sadhavi Pragya Singh Thakur from Surat and the Mumbai police claiming Indore-based Hindu Jagran Manch 's hand in the Malegaon-Modasa blasts could have prompted the Gujarat Police to summon the ABVP members . . . The 15-member police team probing the blast case was banking on two things an eyewitness who could have possibly seen the person parking the bomb-laden motorcycle and forensic experts finding the original chassis number of the motorcycle . `` Unfortunately , we failed on both counts , '' a police inspector , associated with the probe , said . . . ... contd . NEW DELHI : A live bomb was found in the Faridabad district of Fariadabad early on Monday morning . -LRB- Watch -RRB- The bomb discovered by civilians was found outside the crowded Banke Bihari temple in the city.Even though the Bomb Disposal Squad was rushed to the spot , interestingly it was a civilian infact who actually defused the bomb . Police have not yet been able to ascertain as to who placed the bomb outside the temple and if it was part of a strategy to terror target the untouched state of Haryana . Staff Reporter . . NEW DELHI : Two more persons , admitted to a private hospital after being injured in the Mehrauli bomb blast here over the weekend , were brought to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences on Monday with splinter injuries . . . According to a senior physician at the AIIMS Trauma Centre , a seven-year-old girl and her father , both of whom sustained splinter injuries in the blast , were brought in on Monday morning . That had earlier got themselves admitted to a private hospital . . . The two are now under treatment and their condition is stable . We have two critically ill patients with head injuries , while four others are stable . Seven other patients under our care are doing well , said Trauma Centre Medical Superintendent M. C. Misra . . . Stating that the best possible medical care was being given to patients admitted to AIIMS , Dr. Misra said : While we are extremely worried about the condition of two patients who are critically ill , we are optimistic about the recovery of the other patients who seem to be responding well to treatment . We also want appeal to the blood donors to leave their phone numbers with us so that we can call them as and when needed . Rahi Gaikwad . . Booked under sections of the Explosives Act . . Accused reportedly started Rashtriya Jagran Manch . . The police recovered some mobile phones . . MUMBAI : The Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- arrested three persons on Thursday in connection with the LOC_Event blast of September 29 , ATS chief Hemant Karkare told journalists here on Friday . . . The accused have been identified as Pragnya Singh Chandrapal Singh , 38 , Shiv Narayan Gopal Singh Kalsanghra , 36 , and Shyam Bhawarlal Sahu , 42 . They were produced before the Nashik Chief Judicial Magistrates court , which remanded them to police custody till November 3 . . . The motorcycle used in the blast belonged to Pragnya . All efforts were taken to hide the ownership of the vehicle . The registration number was bogus and they tried to efface the engine and the chassis numbers . . . Pragnya is a sadhvi , who took sanyas in 2007 , after which she took on the alias Poorna Chetananandgiri . Originally from Madhya Pradesh , she shifted to Surat with her family a few years ago . However , she had no fixed location . Since she had chosen the religious path , she toured various places doing bhraman . She founded the Jai Vande Mataram Jan Kalyan Samiti in 2002 . Investigators have recovered pamphlets of this organisation . . . Mr. Karkare said the accused reportedly started the Rashtriya Jagran Manch . The police are probing the links of the Samiti and the Manch to Hindu religious organisations . . . The police also recovered some mobile phones . Sahu was in the mobile business , said Mr. Karkare . He and Kalsanghra are from Indore . . . The accused have been booked under various sections of the Indian Explosives Act and the Unlawful Activities -LRB- Prevention -RRB- Act -LRB- UAPA -RRB- . The Forensic Sciences Laboratory -LRB- FSL -RRB- report had revealed traces of RDX , said Mr. Karkare . . . A bomb attached to a motorcycle ripped through the Bhiku chowk area of LOC_Event on September 29 . . . Corrections and Clarifications . . The second paragraph of a report ` LOC_Event blast ; three remanded tocustody ' -LRB- October 25 , 2008 -RRB- was ` The accused have been identified as PragnyaSingh Chandrapal Singh , 38 , Shiv Narayan Gopal Singh Kalsanghra , 36 , andShyam Bhawarlal Sahu , 42 . . ' It should have been Pragnya Singh ChandrapalSingh Thakur . A team of the Anti-Terrorist Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- of the Mumbai police visited the city on October 29 as part of their investigations into the September 29 LOC_Event blast . . . Officials of the Special Operation Group -LRB- SOG -RRB- of the Vadodara police , who were part of the investigation , told Newsline that the visiting team had some specific information about links between the LOC_Event blast and Vadodara . . . `` We were just asked to furnish details about some locations in the city which we did . We have not been given any information about who they were searching for and what information they had gathered about the LOC_Event link with the blast , '' said an SOG official . MUMBAI : The Shiv Sena on Tuesday alleged that Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur , arrested in connection with the September 29 LOC_Event blasts , was a victim of the ` race to claim credit -LRB- for cracking the case -RRB- among the police force . ' ` Police never get their hands on the real masterminds of blasts ... They just pick up people at random and parade them before the media and congratulate themselves . This leads to a race to grab credit -LRB- for cracking cases -RRB- , ' the party alleged in an editorial in its mouthpiece , Saamana . ` Pragya Singh is a victim of this race to claim credit , ' the editorial charged . It further said that in today 's atmosphere of insecurity , Muslim fundamentalists are to blame if at all a Hindu takes to terrorism . ` If a Hindu organisation is taking on useless secularism , the Anti-Terrorist Squad must not brand it as a terrorist outfit , ' it said . The editorial also condemned the attack by NCP workers on the Vishwa Hindu Parishad office in LOC_Event in the wake of of the sadhvi 's arrest . ` Just because NCP controls the home ministry -LRB- in the state -RRB- , we hope they have not got a license to do what they want , ' it said . ` Why did they ever not attack SIMI offices ? NCP member advocate Majid Memon defended the 1993 blasts ' accused . Has anybody ever touched him ? ' it asked . ` Those who put Sadhvi Pragya Singh behind bars and those who attacked the VHP office in LOC_Event belong to the same club , ' the editorial accused . LOC_Event : The Hindu face of terrorism has emerged with the arrest of three persons , including a woman , suspected to be behind the September 29 bomb blast in LOC_Event which killed six and injured 89 others . -LRB- Watch -RRB- TOI had reported their detention in its Friday edition . Maharashtras Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- on Friday produced them before a Nashik court which remanded them to police custody till November 3 . The three have been charged with murder , attempt to murder , unlawful assembly under the IPC and Section 16 -LRB- punishment for terror acts -RRB- and Section 18 -LRB- punishment for terror conspiracy -RRB- of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act , and several sections of the Explosives Act . The woman has been identified as Pragya Singh Thakur -LRB- 38 -RRB- , a sadhvi -LRB- woman monk -RRB- . According to ATS chief Hemant Karkare , the motorcycle in which the bomb was planted was traced to her.The other two arrested , Shamlal Bhavar Sahu -LRB- 42 -RRB- and Shivnarayan Singh -LRB- 36 -RRB- , have been accused of plotting as well as planting the bomb at LOC_Event in LOC_Event , just outside the sealed office of the banned outfit , the Students Islamic Movement of India -LRB- SIMI -RRB- . Two more suspects Dilip Nehar and Dharmendra Bajrangi have also been detained by the ATS.Those arrested are reported to have given the names of their collaborators . An ATS team will soon go to MP to make more arrests . They -LRB- the suspects -RRB- were driven by their desire to retaliate against jihadi terrorism and to avenge the killings of Hindus , said a source in intelligence . Security agencies are alarmed by the clear evidence of the beginning of radicalisation of the majority community . This , they say , is the first instance of reverse terrorism resulting in killing . According to sources , Thakur , a resident of Gwalior , was a popular leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad -LRB- ABVP -RRB- , the student wing of the BJP , till 1997 . The ABVP , though , has denied the allegation . She quit the ABVP and took sanyas in January 2007 after becoming a disciple of religious guru Avdeshanand Giri . Thakur , who was in the state executive council of the ABVP , was known for her fiery speeches . In 2002 , she had formed the Jai Vande Mataram Jan Kalyan Samiti . We have seized some pamphlets and are conducting investigations . She had also launched the Rashtriya Jagran Manch in Indore , Karkare said.Shivnaryan is an electrical contractor in Indore while Sahu runs a cell-phone repairing shop in Tukogunj in Madhya Pradesh . He is also a small-time property broker . Shivnarayan attends RSS shakhas and has a shop in the Bengali Chauraha area.According to the ATS , Thakur , Singh and Sahu are members of right-wing Hindu radical organisations . Karkare said that the motor bike used in LOC_Event bomb blast belonged to Thakur who is now a sadhvi and regularly visited Surat to deliver religious lectures . Thakur and Sahu had spoken to each other for 400 minutes on the cellphone over several days after the Malegaon blast , an ATS officer said.Shivnarayan and Sahu have been termed by the police as mechanical and electronics experts . They are suspected to have assembled the bombs . We want to know who taught them bomb making and whether there is any training camp for such destructive activities , said an officer . Oct. 24 : A young sadhvi known for bashing up rogue Romeos and flaunting her prowess with the rifle was slapped with murder charges along with two men for last months blast in Maharashtras LOC_Event . . . The arrests were made by the Mumbai anti-terrorist squad ( ATS ) over the past one week from Surat , where the sadhvi , Pragya Singh Thakur , is now based , and from Madhya Pradesh . . . Joint commissioner of Mumbai police and ATS chief Hemant Karkare said : We have arrested Pragya Singh Chandrapal Singh Thakur alias Purna Chetananand Giri , 38 , Shivnarain Gopal Singh Kalsaangra , 36 , and Shyam Bhawarlal Sahu , 42 , for plotting the LOC_Event explosions . They have been produced in a Nashik court and we ( the police ) have their custody till November 3 . . . Public prosecutor Ajay Mishra said the trio had been slapped with charges of murder , attempt to murder , criminal conspiracy and promoting enmity between different groups on religious grounds . They were also booked under the explosives act . . . The ATS claimed its probe had revealed that RDX was used in the September explosion just ahead of Id . The blast killed five persons . . . The remand application mentioned that among other evidence , the police had recorded telephone conversations of up to 400 minutes between Pragya and her co-accused after the blast . . . Karkare said Pragya had taken sanyas in 2007 and set up two organisations , the Jai Vande Mataram Janakalyan Samiti and the Rashtriya Janjagran Manch , in Indore . . . As evidence of her involvement , the ATS said the LML Freedom motorcycle on which the bomb had been placed was found registered in her name . . . The rear portion of the bike was mangled , and the probe showed that the chassis number and the original registration number had been tampered with . . . The police were not forthcoming on the evidence against the other two . Sources said Shyam Sahu ran a SIM card shop in Indore . . . Pragyas father C.P. Singh Thakur , 68 , an ayurvedic doctor in Surat , scoffed at the flimsy evidence and claimed that his daughter had sold the motorcycle but had forgotten to whom and that she did not have any papers to show for that . . . She has been arrested because she could not name the person she sold her motorcycle to , said Thakur . . . Thakur recalled that Pragya , during her college days in Madhya Pradesh , was a prominent , and feared , student leader . She would ride a motorcycle and severely beat up rogue Romeos harassing girls , earning admiration in a male-dominated society . . . Pragya is believed to be a former member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ABVP ) , the student wing of the BJP , and the Durga Vahini , the womens wing of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad . In 2001 , she is said to have got herself photographed practising rifle shooting at a camp organised by the Durga Vahini . . . The BJP is fighting shy of defending the accused as the party leadership does not want to be clubbed with those who are defending the accused in the Jamianagar encounter . . . BJP leader Yashwant Sinha said : Our only objection is they are being described as Hindu terrorists . CPM leader Brinda Karat called them Hindu terrorists . We have categorically said we dont link religion with terrorism . . . The Congress is still wary of going ballistic with the issue as it is trying to ascertain Pragyas credentials as an insider of the ABVP . She is also believed to be a disciple of Swami Avadeshanand Maharaj , who is close to a Union minister and his politician son . Rahi Gaikwad . . Booked under sections of the Explosives Act . . Accused reportedly started Rashtriya Jagran Manch . . The police recovered some mobile phones . . MUMBAI : The Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- arrested three persons on Thursday in connection with the LOC_Event blast of September 29 , ATS chief Hemant Karkare told journalists here on Friday . . . The accused have been identified as Pragnya Singh Chandrapal Singh , 38 , Shiv Narayan Gopal Singh Kalsanghra , 36 , and Shyam Bhawarlal Sahu , 42 . They were produced before the Nashik Chief Judicial Magistrates court , which remanded them to police custody till November 3 . . . The motorcycle used in the blast belonged to Pragnya . All efforts were taken to hide the ownership of the vehicle . The registration number was bogus and they tried to efface the engine and the chassis numbers . . . Pragnya is a sadhvi , who took sanyas in 2007 , after which she took on the alias Poorna Chetananandgiri . Originally from Madhya Pradesh , she shifted to Surat with her family a few years ago . However , she had no fixed location . Since she had chosen the religious path , she toured various places doing bhraman . She founded the Jai Vande Mataram Jan Kalyan Samiti in 2002 . Investigators have recovered pamphlets of this organisation . . . Mr. Karkare said the accused reportedly started the Rashtriya Jagran Manch . The police are probing the links of the Samiti and the Manch to Hindu religious organisations . . . The police also recovered some mobile phones . Sahu was in the mobile business , said Mr. Karkare . He and Kalsanghra are from Indore . . . The accused have been booked under various sections of the Indian Explosives Act and the Unlawful Activities -LRB- Prevention -RRB- Act -LRB- UAPA -RRB- . The Forensic Sciences Laboratory -LRB- FSL -RRB- report had revealed traces of RDX , said Mr. Karkare . . . A bomb attached to a motorcycle ripped through the Bhiku chowk area of LOC_Event on September 29 . . . Corrections and Clarifications . . The second paragraph of a report ` LOC_Event blast ; three remanded tocustody ' -LRB- October 25 , 2008 -RRB- was ` The accused have been identified as PragnyaSingh Chandrapal Singh , 38 , Shiv Narayan Gopal Singh Kalsanghra , 36 , andShyam Bhawarlal Sahu , 42 . . ' It should have been Pragnya Singh ChandrapalSingh Thakur . Sandeep Dikshit . . NEW DELHI : The arrest of a serving officer for his alleged complicity in the LOC_Event bomb blasts has hurt the Armys prestige but this was a freak incident , a senior Army officer said here on Thursday . . . The Armys prestige has been hurt after our officers name came up in case . This is a freak incident . We have our own mechanisms for keeping a check on these kinds of things , the Deputy Chief of the Army Staff , Lt. Gen. S. P. S. Dhillon , told journalists here after a send-off for troops from a Gorkha battalion on a U.N. peacekeeping mission in Congo . . . Lt. Col. Srikant Purohit was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly supplying money and explosives for the September 29 blast . . . From the intelligence cadre of the Army , he was posted at the Army Corps Training College and Centre at Pachmarhi in Madhya Pradesh . . . Lt. Gen. Dhillon said the Army would initiate action against the officer after receiving a report from the Maharashtra Polices Anti-Terrorism Squad . . . On the peacekeeping mission in Congo , he said , Our troops have been doing good work there and will continue to do so . This despite pressure from rebels . Recently , militants injured an officer and a jawan in rocket firing on their armoured personnel carriers . . . India has the largest representation in the U.N. mission in Congo with over 4,500 troops out of 17,000 peacekeepers deployed there . . . Corrections and Clarifications . . It is the Army Educational Corps Training College and Centre , atPachmarhi in Madhya Pradesh . A report ' -LSB- Purohit arrest -RSB- A freak case : Army ' -LRB- November 7 , 2008 -RRB- gave it , incorrectly , as the Army Corps Training Collegeand Centre . Atiq Khan . . LUCKNOW : The Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- , Mumbai , on Thursday secured the transit remand for Sudhakar Dwivedi , alias Amritanand , a suspect in the LOC_Event bomb blast case of September , 2008 . The remand till November 16 was granted by Mukesh Kumar , Civil Judge , Junior Division , Lucknow . . . His name had earlier been disclosed as Dayanand Pandey but , following calls from the DGPs office late on Wednesday night , it was given as Sudhakar Dwivedi , son of Dayanand Dwivedi . He had taken the name Amritanand and become the Peethadheeshwar of the Sharda Sarvagya Peeth in Jammu . . . Dwivedi was picked up by the Mumbai ATS from the residence of his brother , Pushkar Dwivedi , at Rawatpur village in Kanpur on Wednesday . He is to be taken to Mumbai for further interrogation . . . Dwivedi was brought to Lucknow on Wednesday night and was subjected to a detailed interrogation . Details of the closed-door interrogation were not known , but sources said the ATS was looking into his contacts with some Hindu organisation leaders of Central Uttar Pradesh . His name surfaced after the ATS team , conducting the investigation into the LOC_Event blasts and the alleged involvement of a retired Lieutenant-Colonel , found that he was in touch with Sadhvi Pragnya Singh , another accused in the case , the sources said . Sushanta Talukdar . . Six detained for questioning ; Manmohan Singh speaks to Manik Sarkar . . Guwahati : Three Central teams rushed to LOC_Event on Thursday to investigate Wednesday nights serial blasts that left 74 injured , three of them critically . . . The teams from the National Security Guards , the Intelligence Bureau and the Central Forensic Science Laboratory , Kolkata , visited the blast sites to gather evidence . Police have detained six persons for questioning . . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh spoke to Tripura Chief Minister Manik Sarkar about the blasts and the prevailing situation . Mr. Sarkar apprised Dr. Singh of the incidents and measures initiated by his government . . . Dr. Singh strongly condemned the attack on innocent people and wished the injured speedy recovery . . . On Wednesday night , Union Home Minister Shivraj Patil also spoke to Mr. Sarkar . Mr. Sarkar told TheHindu that he could not comment immediately as the State and Central governments were working together and investigating the matter . . . We hope to be able to form some opinion by tomorrow -LSB- Friday -RSB- . He had a review meeting with police top brass and senior State government officials . He asked the administration to step up security measures for the Durga Puja festival . . . Sources said the government agencies were trying to ascertain if the blasts had any similarity with the ones in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . The police said ammonium nitrate and fuel oil were suspected to have been used in the bombs . . . Director-General of Police Pranay Sahay said the police had not been able to pinpoint the involvement of any group or outfit in the blasts . Five cases had been registered in connection with the blasts . . . An angle being explored is whether the blasts were the handiwork of forces bent on scuttling the States development . . . The blasts took place hours after results of the by-election to various local bodies were announced . The ruling Left Front swept the poll , winning 74 per cent of the seats . Of the 153 seats to which by-elections were held on September 27 , the Left Front won in 123 , with the CPI -LRB- M -RRB- alone bagging 120 seats . The Left Front has also secured 32 seats uncontested . Candidates of Opposition parties forfeited their securities in most of the seats . . . The Opposition Congress , however , accused the Left Front government of ignoring the warnings by Central intelligence agencies and not taking adequate measures to thwart terrorist attacks . . . CPI -LRB- M -RRB- condemns . . New LOC_Event Special Correspondent writes : . . The CPI -LRB- M -RRB- condemned the forces which carried out the blasts in LOC_Event . The incident was an attempt to undermine the success of the Left Front government in tackling extremism , it said . . . CPI -LRB- M -RRB- general secretary Prakash Karat said he spoke to Mr. Sarkar on Thursday . . . The Left Front government of Tripura has registered significant success in tackling the extremist groups which resorted to terrorist violence . The explosions must be seen as an attempt to destabilise the situation , the Polit Bureau said in a statement . . . The Polit Bureau conveyed its heartfelt sympathy to the victims and their families . The Centre should extend all help to Tripura in tracking down the culprits , especially in view of the fact that the State had an international border on the three sides . The mystery behind the October 1 serial blasts in LOC_Event that left 100 injured has been solved with the police zeroing in on the outlawed All Tripura Tiger Forceand arresting the mastermind , the CID said on Wednesday . . . Two arrested overground ATTF activists Shanti Debbarma and Angad Santhal first provided the lead during interrogation that 25-year-old Bikash Debbarma belonging to the outfit masterminded the blasts , CID sources said . . . Based on the information provided by the duo , the police raided a rented house on October 11 at Bhati-Avoynagar in LOC_Event and seized bomb-making material and the cover of the SIM cards used in the blasts , but Bikash had already escaped . . . He was subsequently arrested from Khowai in West Tripura district on October 13 , the sources said . . . Bikash and another insurgent of the ATTF were trained by the Bangladesh Riflesand DGFIi , the intelligence wing of the Bangladesh Army , at Munshighat , near Chittagong two months ago , the sources said . . . The explosives used were supplied from ATTF base camps in Sylhet district . They were transported by a collaborator of the ATTF from Sidhai area , bordering Sylhet , 40 km from LOC_Event , and taken to the house rented by Bikash , according to the sources . . . Bikash used a mobile phone to trigger the blasts himself , the sources added . . Terrorists struck Agartala for the first time as two persons were killed and 100 injured in a series of five blasts at crowded markets and bus stands in a space of five minutes on Wednesday evening.The low-intensity blasts took place at Agartala 's main shopping area LOC_Event , LOC_Event , busy LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event localities.The first blast occurred at LOC_Event at around 7.30 pm and it was followed by the explosions in the other places in quick succession , police sources said.An unidentified man was killed in the blast at LOC_Event while another person succumbed to injuries.The condition of five of the injured was stated to be critical.A live bomb was recovered at LOC_Event while another exploded without causing any casualty as the place had by that time emptied of people.Bomb squads and forensic experts examined the blast sites.Police sources , quoting eyewitnesses , said two persons riding a motorcycle were seen moving suspiciously at LOC_Event and the blast took place there two to three minutes after they left the area.Police sources suspect the involvement of Bangladesh-based terror group Hizbul Mujaheedin Islamia ( HuJI ) which has of late used Tripura as a transit route as the state shares a porous 856-km border with the neighbouring country.Three suspected HuJI members were arrested in Agartala in the last two months.Central intelligence agencies had on September 25 warned the northeastern states of an impending terror attack and BSF officials in Agartala confirmed having received the input.It was for the first time that serial blasts rocked Agartala but people did not appear to have panicked with many people preferring to remain outdoors even in the blast-hit areas and many organisers of Durga Puja , which begins on October 5 , going ahead with preparations for the big occasion . . New Delhi , Oct 02 : Condemning the serial bomb blasts in Agartala , the CPI ( M ) on Thursday asked the Centre to extend all help to Tripura government in tracking down the culprits behind the attack . ` The central government should extend all help to the state government in tracking down the culprits behind this attack especially in view of the fact that the state has international borders on its three sides , ' party General Secretary Prakash Karat said here . . . Noting that the Left Front government in Tripura has registered significant success in tackling the extremist groups who used to resort to terrorist violence , Karat said the explosions must be seen as an attempt to destabilise the situation . . . He said he had spoken to Chief Minister Manik Sarkar and till noon no one has died in connection with the blasts in which 73 people were injured . . . Bureau Report . LOC_Event : Four back-to-back terror strikes in LOC_Event , the capital of LOC_Event , which shares a 856-km porous border with Bangladesh , on Wednesday evening left at least four people dead and 76 others injured , several critically , according to hospital sources . The state police confirmed only one death but said the toll was likely to rise . -LRB- Watch -RRB- The first explosion took place around 7.30 pm at the LOC_Event bus stand . Minutes later , there was another blast at Maharajganj Bazar in the heart of the city . The two are about 2 km apart . Two live bombs were found at LOC_Event and LOC_Event near the palace compound.As the injured were being taken to Agartala Government Medical College hospital , another blast rocked LOC_Event , which is on the route of the ambulances taking the injured to the hospital . The fourth blast at 8.15 pm was near LOC_Event on the outskirts of the state capital . There was a heavy rush of puja shoppers at LOC_Event bus stand , LOC_Event and LOC_Event market , all in the heart of the city.While Tripura has long been a conduit for smuggling and terror merchandise , most violence in the state had been related to insurgencies of tribal groups . But the blasts on Wednesday , security officials said , were likely to be the work of the Bangladesh-based Harkat ul-Jihad-e-Islami -LRB- HuJI -RRB- , a terror group which has been frequently blamed for terror attacks in UP and Hyderabad.Investigators are still probing the possible connection between HuJI and Indian Mujahideen , the SIMI splinter group , which has claimed responsibility for serial blasts in Bangalore , Ahmedabad and Delhi in recent weeks.As in Ahmedabad , Jaipur and Delhi , the news of the blasts triggered citywide panic and all telecommunication links were jammed with people calling to check if their family and friends were safe.Quoting witnesses , police sources said two persons riding a motorcycle were seen moving suspiciously at LOC_Event bus stand . The blast took place there two to three minutes after they left the place . Tripura police chief Pranay Sahay rushed to the sites to monitor the evacuation but refused to go on record on suspects.In recent weeks , there have been reports of Islamic militants using LOC_Event to enter LOC_Event from Bangladesh . Reports also said that on September 25 , central intelligence agencies had warned north-eastern states of an impending terror attack and Border Security Force officials in LOC_Event confirmed having received the input . Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI : The Communist Party of India -LRB- Marxist -RRB- on Thursday strongly condemned the forces which carried out the bomb blasts in Tripura capital Agartala . The incident was an attempt to undermine the success of the Left Front government in tackling extremism , it said . . . CPI -LRB- M -RRB- general secretary Prakash Karat said he spoke to LOC_Event Chief Minister Manik Sarkar around noon on Thursday and the four blasts resulted in 73 people getting injured and some in a critical condition . . . The Left Front government of LOC_Event has registered significant success in tackling the extremist groups which resorted to terrorist violence . The explosions must be seen as an attempt to destabilise the situation , the Polit Bureau said in a statement . . . The Polit Bureau conveyed its heartfelt sympathy to the victims and their families . The Centre should extend all help to LOC_Event in tracking down the culprits , especially in view of the fact that the State had an international border on the three sides . Imphal : At least 17 people were killed and more than 30 injured on Tuesday night when unidentified militants exploded a bomb attached to a two-wheeler near a police commando complex in Imphal West district . . . Sources said the victims included a few security personnel . While 13 people died on the spot , four succumbed to injuries in hospital . The condition of many of the injured is critical , sources said . PTI . Two days after a powerful explosion claimed 17 lives in the LOC_Event locality in LOC_Event , security forces gunned down as many as eight militants said to be members of the Kangleipak Communist Party -LRB- MC -RRB- , the outfit responsible for the act . . . `` At least three encounters took place in the two police districts of Imphal East and LOC_Event on Thursday evening , during which eight militants have been killed , '' LOC_Event SP Radheshyam Singh told The Indian Express . . . The Manipur Police and Assam Rifles personnel have been carrying out a joint operation to flush out rebels from LOC_Event city , which itself comes under the jurisdiction of four police districts . While the Army has been in deployment in LOC_Event and the Armed Forces -LRB- Special Powers -RRB- Act is in force , LOC_Event city has remained exempt from it for over five years now . . . `` We have also rounded up a number of persons for interrogation . The operations are still on , '' the SP said . . . Five militants were killed in the first encounter that took place in Heingang Heibi in Imphal East district at around 6.30 pm , while two more were killed in another encounter at Maharabi village under LOC_Event . Prior to that a militant was shot dead at Baruni village in LOC_Event . . . The KCP -LRB- MC -RRB- , one of the several factions of the original KCP founded in 1980 under the leadership of Y Ibohanbi , had earlier claimed responsibility for Tuesday evening 's explosion in LOC_Event . The outfit claimed that it had detonated the explosion near the LOC_Event at LOC_Event area as part of its campaign against pre-diwali gambling spree in different parts of the state . It said gambling was alien to the state 's culture and had spoilt the social atmosphere especially in the run-up to Diwali every year . . . Security forces have also recovered two M16 rifles , one carbine , one 9mm pistol , one single-barrel gun , one hand grenade , nine detonators , about two kgs of plastic explosives and about 100 bullets from the slain militants . Imphal , Oct. 28 : Residents of LOC_Event and its surrounding areas today demanded a judicial inquiry into the October 21 bomb blast in which 17 people were killed and more than 30 wounded . . . While residents in the rest of the state were preparing to celebrate the festival of lights , those in LOC_Event , a tribal village on the outskirts of Imphal city today spent the day by organising a protest march . . . A powerful bomb , fitted to a moped , exploded near a dice game venue near the gate of LOC_Event , close to a police commando barrack and an Assam Rifles transit camp , on the night of October 21 . . . Cadres of the Kangleipak Communist Party ( Military Council ) planted the bomb to target the police and security forces who encouraged gambling and also to warn the gamblers . . . The incident evoked widespread condemnation and sent the Manipur government into taking various preventive measures to avoid such incidents in future . . . The residents of the blast site formed a joint action committee to take up the matter with the Ibobi Singh government . . . Protesters belonging to all communities took out a march from the spot towards the chief ministers office . The police stopped them at Palace Gate , around 300 metres from the office . A delegation was allowed to meet the chief minister . . . The memorandum signed by N. Bhumeshgore , secretary of the action committee , urged the chief minister to order a judicial inquiry into the blast to find out how the bomb exploded near two security establishments and also if there were any security lapses . . . Residents have been accusing the state police of serious lapses . We repeatedly told the police to stop the gambling in the area . But our requests went unheeded , Kambui Lunglu , secretary of the Ragailong Women Union , said . . . The committee also demanded relief for the victims family and the injured . It sought immediate attention for the seriously injured persons and if necessary , their being taken to hospitals outside the state at government cost . . . Chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh has already announced ex gratia for the victims family members and extend financial help to the injured . Even as the number of persons killed in Tuesday night 's powerful explosion in LOC_Event rose to 17 , the Kangleipak Communist Party -LRB- Military Council -RRB- KCP -LRB- MC -RRB- on Wednesday claimed responsibility for the blast and said it did so as part of its campaign against gambling that reaches its peak during Diwali . . . A press note distributed to newspaper offices in LOC_Event on Wednesday evening said the KCP -LRB- MC -RRB- triggered the explosion in order to put an end to lagao , a form of gambling which it said was an `` alien culture '' and was adversely affecting Manipuri society . . . `` Lagao is a form of gambling which is alien to Meitei culture and it needs to be stopped , '' said the statement signed by Lanheiba Meitei , leader of the KCP -LRB- MC -RRB- , one of the several factions of the original KCP that was formed in 1980 . Named after the historical name of Manipur , Kangleipak , the KCP is more concerned with preservation of Meitei culture and demands secession of Manipur from India . . . The blast had occurred at around 7:30 PM at LOC_Event , a locality on the outskirts of Imphal and killed 17 persons , most of whom were engaged in lagao , a game of dice that becomes increasingly popular in the Manipur capital around diwali . Sources said at least 20 persons are undergoing treatment in the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences while some are in the JN Hospital too . The LOC_Event attacks drew widespread international condemnation as cowardly acts of terrorism . But beneath the stock responses was an undercurrent of anxiety that the atrocity could aggravate latent tensions between India and Pakistan . . . George Bush offered his condolences to the Indian people as the White House convened a meeting of top intelligence and counter-terrorism officials . President-elect Barack Obama was briefed by the US secretary of state , Condoleezza Rice , and said in a statement : `` These coordinated attacks on innocent civilians demonstrate the grave and urgent threat of terrorism . The US must continue to strengthen partnerships with India and nations around the world to root out and destroy terrorist networks . '' . . In Moscow President Dmitry Medvedev said : `` We are concerned about the loss of life and consider acts of terrorism of this type are harmful to the whole international order and a challenge to humanity . '' . . The Pope and the UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon both deplored the violence . . . Gordon Brown said : `` I think I speak for the whole world - shocked and outraged at the tragic destruction of innocent lives . I have already sent my sympathy and support to prime minister [ Manhoman ) Singh . We will do everything we can to help the Indian government . '' . . David Miliband , the foreign secretary , condemned `` a callous inhuman and indiscriminate attack on people of all races and all religions '' . He said : `` This is an attack on all of us because democracy in India is vibrant and because Mumbai is one of the world 's most diverse cities . '' . . Comments by prime minister Singh blaming the attacks on a terrorist group with `` external linkages '' rang alarm bells that echoed the dark days of India-Pakistan relations when India routinely saw a Pakistan hand in militant attacks , blaming groups it claimed were set up by Pakistan 's spy agency , the Inter-Services Intelligence , or ISI , to avenge Pakistan 's defeat by India in the 1971 war . . . A terrorist attack on India 's parliament in December 2001 triggered a mass mobilisation along the two countries ' borders and brought them close to a fourth war . That incident was blamed by India on Pakistan-based Kashmiri militant groups . . . Pakistan 's government strongly condemned the violence and expressed deep sorrow over the loss of life . Pakistan 's foreign minister , Shah Mehmood Qureshi , who arrived in India on Wednesday , condemned the attacks but warned against jumping to any conclusions about the background to them . . . Miliband paid tribute to Singh , saying : `` I believe that the comments and leadership of prime minister Singh show that he is a man also of great statesmanship and great determination to build links between India and Pakistan . '' . . . They said that just one look at the bodies of the dead hostages as well as terrorists showed it was a battle of attrition that was fought over three days at the Oberoi and the Taj hotels in LOC_Event . . . Doctors working in a hospital where all the bodies , including that of the terrorists , were taken said they had not seen anything like this in their lives . . . ` LOC_Event has a long history of terror . I have seen bodies of riot victims , gang war and previous terror attacks like bomb blasts . But this was entirely different . It was shocking and disturbing , ' a doctor said . . . Asked what was different about the victims of the incident , another doctor said : ` It was very strange . I have seen so many dead bodies in my life , and was yet traumatised . A bomb blast victim 's body might have been torn apart and could be a very disturbing sight . But the bodies of the victims in this attack bore such signs about the kind of violence of urban warfare that I am still unable to put my thoughts to words , ' he said . . . Asked specifically if he was talking of torture marks , he said : ` It was apparent that most of the dead were tortured . What shocked me were the telltale signs showing clearly how the hostages were executed in cold blood , ' one doctor said . . . The other doctor , who had also conducted the post-mortem of the victims , said : ` Of all the bodies , the Israeli victims bore the maximum torture marks . It was clear that they were killed on the 26th itself . It was obvious that they were tied up and tortured before they were killed . It was so bad that I do not want to go over the details even in my head again , ' he said . . . Corroborating the doctors ' claims about torture was the information that the Intelligence Bureau had about the terror plan . ` During his interrogation , Ajmal Kamal said they were specifically asked to target the foreigners , especially the Israelis , ' an IB source said . . . It is also said that the Israeli hostages were killed on the first day as keeping them hostage for too long would have focused too much international attention . ` They also might have feared the chances of Israeli security agencies taking over the operations at the Nariman House , ' he reasoned . . . On the other hand , there is enough to suggest that the terrorists also did not meet a clean , death . . . The doctors who conducted the post mortem said the bodies of the terrorists were beyond recognition . ` Their faces were beyond recognition . ' . . There was no way of identifying them , ' he said . Asked how , if this is the case , they knew the bodies were indeed those of the terrorists , he said : ` The security forces that brought the bodies told us that those were the bodies of the terrorists , ' he said , adding there was no other way they could have identified the bodies . . . An intelligence agency source added : ` One of the terrorists was shot through either eye . ' . . A senior National Security Guard officer , who had earlier explained the operation in detail to rediff.com , said the commandos went all out after they ascertained that there were no more hostages left . When asked if the commandos attempted to capture them alive at that stage , he replied : ` Unko bachana kaun chahega -LRB- Who will want to save them -RRB- ? ' . LOC_Event : The death toll at LOC_Event -LRB- LOC_Event -RRB- in the recentterror attack should serve to be a lesson to a section of politicians trying to communalise the issue of terrorism . The two gunmen , who spread terror at LOC_Event last Wednesday , killed a total of 58 people at CST , 22 of them being Muslims.One Muslim family that took a body blow in the carnage was the Ansaris from Tulsiwadi in Tardeo . Four members of the family -- Abbas Ansari -LRB- 40 -RRB- , Rakhila Ansari -LRB- 40 -RRB- , Mohammad Ansari -LRB- 40 -RRB- and Sarfaraz Ansari -LRB- 17 -RRB- -- were killed in the firing.CR officials said the Muslims killed included both LOC_Event residents as well as outsiders who might have come here for work or to meet relatives . Many of them were waiting for trains headed for Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal , said officials.A significant percentage of the 95 people seriously injured in the firing were also Muslims . Eighteen of these 95 , who have been given ex-gratia for treatment , are Muslims . ` The bullet does not care for the victim 's religion , '' a CR security official said.The list of victims prepared by Central Railway -LRB- CR -RRB- also shows the dead to include four foriegners and eight bodies are yet to be identified . CR officials said they were not able to ascertain the permanent addresses of three foreigners , Michael Moss -LRB- 73 -RRB- , Jurman Rudolf -LRB- 68 -RRB- and Schmader Daffne -LRB- 50 -RRB- . Officials have been able to get the address of Brett Tailor -LRB- 49 -RRB- , a resident of Australia.devraj.dasgupta@timesgroup.com . WASHINGTON A former Defense Department official said Wednesday that American intelligence agencies had determined that former officers from Pakistans Army and its powerful Inter-Services Intelligence agency helped train the Mumbai attackers . . `` The hotel is under our control , '' JK Dutt , chief of the National Security Guard commandos , said Saturday , Nov. 29 , after fierce combat that began early in the morning and lasted nearly five hours . . . Dutt added that the commandoes had killed three terrorists after an intense gun battle inside the hotel . One commando was killed during the assault in the 565-room hotel . Some 200 national security guards were involved in the operation . . . Through Friday night , the terrorists engaged in intermittent battles . Dutt said terrorists had set fires at different places in the hotel as diversionary tactics whenever they found the forces closing in on them . . . Security forces still had to complete their final searches of the hotels . . `` There was a lot of shooting . Grenades were lobbed and explosives were used by terrorists , '' he said . . . The security chief said operations would be declared over only after the conclusion of room-to-room searches to ensure that there were no remaining terrorists or live explosives inside the LOC_Event . . . `` We are also looking for surviving guests who could have locked themselves in rooms and have not been coming out for fear of terrorists , '' he said . . . Rescue operations at hotels , Jewish center . . In all , nearly 200 people have been killed since Wednesday night when a group of militants carried out a series of coordinated attacks in India 's commercial capital . At least 22 of the dead were non-Indian national . Several hundred more people have been injured . . . The terrorists reportedly targeted individuals carrying British and American passports . Five Americans and one British citizen have been reported among the foreign victims . . . In addition to other sites , the gunmen had seized the Taj and the Oberoi-Trident , both five-star hotels , and a Jewish center in southern Mumbai . . . The National Security Guard and military commandoes on Friday managed to end the siege at the Oberoi-Trident hotel and the Jewish center by killing two militants in each operation . . . The horror began Wednesday evening with coordinated attacks at multiple locations . . At least 30 bodies were found at the hotel , 20 of whom were massacred in one of the restaurants , officials said . Five hostages were murdered by militants at the Jewish center . . . Tension rises between India , Pakistan . . A previously unknown group calling itself the Decca Mujahedeen claimed responsibility for the attacks -- the worst in Mumbai since more than 180 people were killed in a series of bombings in 2006 . . . Indian security agencies have said they suspect that Pakistan-based militant groups like the Lashkar-e-Toiba had a hand in the carnage . On Friday , Delhi blamed `` elements '' in Pakistan for the attacks . . . Indian Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee told visiting Pakistani counterpart Shah Mehmood Qureshi that `` outrages '' like the Mumbai attack would make progress in the bilateral peace process `` impossible . '' . Ranchi , Nov. 28 : It was 1.35 pm . Numb with pain , friends and family members of Malayesh Banerjee watched IC 809 touch down at Birsa Munda Airport . They knew it had arrived . . . Colleagues Ketan Parekh and Saurav Kumar , and family friend Prasenjit Kumar were accompanying the body of the 27-year-old architect , killed in one of the worst terror attacks in LOC_Event on Wednesday . . . Father Madhabendra Banerjee the head of chemistry department at Ranchi University perhaps for the first time fumbled for an answer when someone asked where the coffin was and how it would be taken home . . . As the others wondered what to do , an airport employee directed them to an ambulance parked near the side gate on the premises . . . Soon , a red and white trolley carrying the black coffin appeared . Madhabendra broke down . The coffin was put in ambulance . It left the airport at 2.02 pm and reached the Banerjee residence at Old Commissioners Compound , behind Lionel Edward Bengali Boys School , 20 minutes later . . . For a moment , there was silence . . . As the ambulance stopped , a group of hysterical women rushed towards the vehicle . They were followed by an inconsolable Mridula , Malayeshs mother . A family friend said doctors had had to give sedatives to soothe her frayed nerves . . . After a half-an-hour stay , Malayeshs body was taken on its final journey to the Harmu crematorium . . . It was a heartrending scene . Madhabendra could barely walk to the pyre . Finally , Malayeshs maternal uncle , Pradeep Banerjee , had to complete the last rites , said a neighbour . . . This is the most unfortunate day of my life . I am lighting the pyre of the boy who once played on my lap . I wish I could challenge destiny , Pradeep told The Telegraph . . . Colleague Ketan said that Malayesh would not have died had he stayed a little longer at office . . . He took the bullet hardly 20 minutes after he left our office at Nariman Point . He was rushed to hospital , but could not be saved , he said . . . The Bishop Westcott Boys School in Namkum , Malayeshs alma mater , today mourned his death . Students observed silence for two minutes and prayed that his soul may rest in peace . . . Several dignitaries , including former state chief minister Arjun Munda , visited the Banerjee residence later in the day to condole his death . . . PUCL state vice-president Tridib Ghosh also sent a condolence message to the bereaved Banerjee family . A day after the terror attack on the historic LOC_Event which left over hundred killed , services on the Central Railways were restored to normal on Thursday , officials said.Three railway officials , including senior inspector of CST Government Railway Police ( GRP ) Shashank Shinde and head constable of the Railway Protection Force M L Chaudhary , were killed in the shootout.The other Central Railway employee killed in the attack was Assisting Chief Ticket Officer S K Sharma . `` We resumed services around 0230 hours after conducting combing operations to ensure it was safe , '' Chief Public Relations Officer ( Central Railways ) Shriniwas Mudgerikar said.High security was present at all railway stations on the Central Railway line , he said.The total number of persons killed in the attack has not yet been ascertained , officials said . . . . LOC_Event : Three police officers , including chief of ATS Hemant Karkare , encounter specialist Vijay Salaskar and additional commissioner Ashok Kamte succumbed to their injuries in Wednesday 's terror attack . -LRB- Watch -RRB- Karkare , IPS officer of the 1982 batch , had served in RAW for nine years and was made the ATS chief in January this year . He had solved the serial bomb blasts in Thane , Vashi and Panvel . The credit for the stunning revelations in the investigation of the September 29 blast in Malegaon goes to his credit . Karkare is known for his discipline and fair investigation . During the LOC_Event investigation , Karkare had told his officers not to create false evidence , saying , ` We have done our job and it is for the court to decide . ' Vijay Salaskar , officer of the 1983 batch , had till recently killed around 75 dreaded criminals in police encounters . After being out of the spotlight for quite sometime , the encounter specialist was given the plum posting of heading the anti-extortion wing of the crime branch.Ashok Kamte was the DCP , Zone 1 , in Mumbai and was also the key officer in state police . He had also served as the commissioner of Solapur and was always known to be in the thick of action . QnA | By putting their lives on the line , do you think the chief cops left their juniors without a leader , causing even more mayhem that could have otherwise been avoided ? . NEW DELHI The exchanges are chilling . Skip to next paragraphRelatedTimes Topics : Terrorism in IndiaDocument : Copy of the Dossier ( External link ) The hostages are of use only as long as you do not come under fire , a supervisor instructed gunmen by phone during the LOC_Event attacks in November . He added : If you are still threatened , then dont saddle yourself with the burden of the hostages . Immediately kill them.A gunman replied , Yes , we shall do accordingly , God willing . These are some of the grim details of the LOC_Event attacks compiled by the Indian authorities and officially shared with the Pakistani government on Monday . The compilation seems intended to achieve at least two objectives for India : demonstrate that the attackers were sent from Pakistan , and rally international support for Indias efforts to press Pakistan on its handling of terrorism suspects . To that end , the dossier , a copy of which was shown to The New York Times , includes previously undisclosed transcripts of telephone conversations , intercepted by Indian authorities , that the 10 gunmen had during their killing spree . They left 163 dead , all the while receiving instructions and pep talks from their handlers across the border.The dossier also includes photographs of materials found on the fishing trawler the gunmen took to LOC_Event : a bottle of Mountain Dew soda packaged in Karachi , pistols bearing the markings of a gun manufacturer in Peshawar , Pakistani-made items like a matchbox , detergent powder and shaving cream.Beyond that , the dossier chronicles Indias efforts in recent years to persuade Pakistan to investigate suspects involved in terrorist attacks in India and to close terrorist training camps inside Pakistani territory . In the final pages , India demands that Pakistan hand over conspirators to face trial in India and comply with its promise to stop terrorist groups from functioning inside its territory . The dossier was shown this week to diplomats from friendly nations ; one described it as comprehensive , another as convincing.Although the dossier takes pains not to blame current or former officials in Pakistans army or spy agency , Indian officials have consistently hinted at their complicity , at least in training the commando-style fighters who carried out the attack . On Tuesday , the Indian prime minister , Manmohan Singh , upped the ante , but stopped short of naming any specific entities or individuals . There is enough evidence to show that , given the sophistication and military precision of the attack , it must have had the support of some official agencies in Pakistan , he said.Pakistan on Tuesday rejected the Indian allegation . Scoring points like this will only move us further away from focusing on the very real and present danger of regional and global terrorism , Sherry Rehman , Pakistans information minister , said in a statement , according to Reuters . It is our firm resolve to ensure that nonstate actors do not use Pakistani soil to launch terrorist attacks anywhere in the world.Pakistan has said it is examining the information sent by India.The dossier narrates a journey of zeal , foibles and careful planning , one whose blow-by-blow news coverage was followed by handlers , believed to be in Pakistan , and used to caution the gunmen about the movement of Indian security forces and to motivate them to keep fighting.Everything is being recorded by the media . Inflict the maximum damage . Keep fighting . Dont be taken alive , a caller said to a gunman in the Oberoi Hotel in the early hours of the three-day rampage.Throw one or two grenades at the Navy and police teams , which are outside , came one instruction to the gunmen inside the Taj Mahal hotel.Keep two magazines and three grenades aside and expend the rest of your ammunition , went another set of instructions to the attackers inside Nariman House , which housed an Orthodox Jewish center.At the Taj Mahal , the attackers were asked by their counselors whether they had set the hotel on fire ; one attacker said he was preparing a mattress for that purpose . At the Oberoi , an attacker asked whether to spare women ( Kill them , came the terse reply ) and Muslims ( he was told to release them and kill the rest ) . At Nariman House , they were told that Indias standing with a major ally , Israel , might be damaged.If the hostages are killed , it will spoil relations between India and Israel , one handler said.According to the investigation into the attack , the 10 gunmen boarded a small boat in Karachi at 8 a.m. on Nov. 22 , sailed a short distance before boarding a bigger carrier believed to be owned by an important operative of a banned Pakistan-based terrorist group , Lashkar-e-Taiba . The next day , the 10 men took over an Indian fishing trawler , killed four crew members , and sailed 550 nautical miles along the Arabian Sea.Each man carried a weapons pack : a Kalashnikov , a 9-millimeter pistol , ammunition , hand grenades and a bomb containing a military-grade explosive , steel ball bearings and a timer with instructions inscribed in Urdu.By 4 p.m. on Nov. 26 , the trawler approached the shores of LOC_Event . The leader of the crew , identified by Indian investigators as Ismail Khan , 25 , from a Pakistani town in the Northwest-Frontier Province , contacted his handlers . When darkness set in , the men killed the trawlers captain and boarded a dinghy , with an engine that investigators said bore marks from a Lahore-based importing company . They reached LOC_Event about 8:30 p.m. , and in five teams of two , set upon their targets : Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus , known as Victoria Terminus , the citys busiest railway station ; a tourist haunt called the Leopold Cafe ; the Jewish center in Nariman House ; and the Taj Mahal and Oberoi hotels.They made one mistake , investigators said . They left behind Mr. Khans satellite phone ; it was recovered by Indian investigators and its photograph was included in the dossier . A GPS device was also recovered from the trawler.The last telephone transcript in the dossier was at 10:26 p.m. on Nov. 27 , between a gunman inside Nariman House and his interlocutor . Brother you have to fight , the caller said . This is a matter of the prestige of Islam.By the morning of Nov. 29 , Indian forces had killed nine of the fighters.The sole survivor , Muhammad Ajmal Kasab , is in the custody of the Mumbai police . His interrogation turned up one of the most frightening details : he was part of a cadre of 32 would-be suicide bombers , later joined by three more men . Ten went to LOC_Event . Six went to Indian-administered Kashmir , Mr. Kasab told his interrogators . The dossier says nothing about what happened to the remaining trainees . Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from Islamabad , Pakistan.More Articles in World A version of this article appeared in print on January 7 , 2009 , on page A5 of the New York edition . . BELLARY/BANGALORE : Four Kashmiri youths have been taken into custody in Hampi in connection with the February 13 explosion in LOC_Event that left 11 persons dead . The detention was made by a team of the Maharashtra police near Virupapura Gaddi locality . The LOC_Event blast site was littered with handicrafts items , leading the Mumbai police to Hampi . The four Kashmiris are sellers of handicrafts . The police are looking for three other persons , according to sources . Dozens of other detentions have been made in Bangalore , Mumbai and Pune on the basis of intelligence , call records and whatever ` little information ' sleuths could glean from the CCTV footage containing images of activities on North Main Road , where the German Bakery 's entrance is located . But superintendent of police Seemanth Kumar Singh denied the arrest of anybody in connection with the Pune blast . Another SP , Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar , told TOI no arrest or detentions had been made . ` Neither we nor any other state police force has arrested or detained anyone . '' The Maharashtra police team inspected various cyber cafes in Hampi , a popular haunt for foreign tourists . They questioned some foreigners , and enquired with the local police and hotel owners about people who had booked rooms for a week and left in a hurry . The police have visited some of the villages surrounding Hampi . More than 40 hotels catering to foreign tourists are located in Hampi . Three years ago , a suspected terrorist , Bilal , from Kashmir , was arrested in Bangalore . An LeT operative , he had planned to attack the Bengaluru International Airport and Wipro and Infosys offices . Late last August , Indias intelligence services listened in as two Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives discussed plans to attack targets in LOC_Event . . . No evidence has yet emerged to link the timer-controlled , directional improvised explosive device that went off in LOC_Event on Saturday to Pakistan-backed jihadist groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba . But Indias intelligence services believe that call and a mass of other indications suggest they were the most likely perpetrators of the bombing of the LOC_Event . . . Jihadist operations . . Long before Lashkar Deputy Chief held out threats of attacks against LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event in a February 5 speech , a mass of jihadist operations had been detected . . . In mid-2009 , Karachi-based jihadist Mohammad Khwaja recently handed over by Sri Lankan authorities to India is believed to have planned a bombing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sanghs offices in Kolkata to coincide with the Lok Sabha elections . . . Khalid Sardana , a Poonch-based Lashkar operative who played a key role in raising recruits for the organisation , was arrested late last year while attempting to rebuild western India networks he had constructed for the terrorist group while studying at a Gujarat seminary . . . The Karachi Project . . Lashkar commanders , evidence presented by the Federal Bureau of Investigation in support of the prosecution of Pakistani-American jihadist David Headley suggests , were at an advanced stage of planning attacks in LOC_Event and LOC_Event Headley also spoke of what he called the Karachi Project : a Lashkar unit dedicated to using Pakistan-based Indian operatives to stage a renewed series of attacks . . . In Karachi , fugitive Indian Mujahideen leaders Riyaz Ismail Shahbandari , his brother Iqbal Shahbandari and Abdul Subhan Qureshi were believed to be preparing the ground for these attacks , possibly in alliance with long-standing Lashkar operatives from Maharashtra , like Zabiuddin Ansari and Rahil Sheikh . . . The LOC_Event cell . . Investigators are focussing their attentions on the prospect that the attacks were carried out by a Pune jihad cell known to have existed since at least 2006 . Much of the story of the cell emerged from the questioning of Mohammad Mansoor Asghar Peerbhoy , an Indian Mujahideen operative held in the course of a national counter-terrorism operation that targeted the Lashkar-linked group in 2008 . . . Having graduated from Pune University in 1998 , Peerbhoy developed a successful career as a software engineer . He served for over a decade with the offshore operations of several United States-based companies , before he was hired as a web services engineer by Yahoo . . . But like many upwardly mobile professionals , Peerbhoy found himself dislocated by the westernised social milieu he found themselves in and turned to religion . In June , 2004 , he travelled with his father a major contractor of fruit to the Indian Armys western command for the Haj pilgrimage . Later , he began studying Arabic and religion with the Quran Foundation , a prominent religious organisation that steered clear of politics . . . In October , 2006 , during a 10-day spiritual retreat at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event , Peerbhoy ran into an associate from his Quran Foundation classes who helped alter his world view . Local resident Asif Bashar Sheikh introduced Peerbhoy to Islamism . The young computer engineer began discussing the conflicts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event , as well as communal violence in India . . . Later , in the spring of 2007 , though , Peerbhoy was introduced to the Indian Mujahideens key operational commander , Riyaz Shahbandri , and his brother , ideologue Iqbal Shahbandri . Based out of a rented flat off Ashoka Mews in Punes Khondva area , the two men sons of an affluent Mumbai-based tannery owner , who had migrated to the city from Bhatkal , near Mangalore ran a secret jihadist group which called itself Isabah . . . Early on , Peerbhoy was tasked with setting up a website for IsabahArabic for the companions of the Prophet Mohammad . The plan was dropped , but Peerbhoy was paid to attend a courses on internet security to help the organisation communicate safely . Later , on a business visit to the United States , he purchased equipment police say was intended to help the organisation evade espionage and locate unsecured wireless networks . The hacked wireless networks were used to send out manifestos claiming responsibility for bombings in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . Late in August , 2008 , the Bhatkal brothers returned to Mangalore a decision which allowed them to evade the police who arrested Peerbhoy and other members of the Pune jihad cell later that year . However , several members of the Indian Mujahideen network in the city , notably Mohsin Chowdhury , also succeeded in escaping . Police believe the Bhatkal brothers may also have recruited other LOC_Event residents who Peerbhoy and his associates were never introduced to . . . Escalating threat . . Indian intelligence analysis believe that these networks are being revived because the international pressure which compelled Pakistans Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate to clamp down on jihadist operations after the November , 2008 carnage in Mumbai has waned . . . Even as the United States seeks a deal with Afghanistan and Pakistan-based Islamists , Pakistans ISI appears to have been testing Indias responses to violence from the jihadist groups it backs . In October , 2009 , jihadists linked to the networks of Afghan warlord Jalaluddin Haqqani widely believed to be a close ally of Pakistans ISI attempted to bomb Indias Embassy in LOC_Event , killing 19 people . Later in the winter , tensions escalated along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir , and rockets were fired across the India-Punjab border . After a detailed review of the internal security situation in the wake of bomb blast in LOC_Event , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday directed the Union and Maharashtra governments to take coordinated and effective action to speedily investigate the terror attack . . . Dr. Singh who discussed the situation with Home Minister P. Chidambaram , directed speedy investigation so that the culprits responsible for this heinous act are identified and brought to justice at the earliest , a spokesman of the Prime Ministers Office said . The Prime Minister was briefed by the Home Minister about investigations being carried out in LOC_Event in the aftermath of the blast on Saturday . . . The Prime Minister expressed his deepest condolences and sympathies to the families of all those killed and injured in the incident and announced relief from the Prime Ministers National Relief Fund of Rs . 2 lakh to the next of kin of those killed , and Rs . 1 lakh to those injured . He said that the government would extend whatever help was required by the families of those killed and injured in the incident . . . Earlier in the day , Mr. Chidambaram presided over a high-level meeting in the Home Ministry which reviewed the security situation across the country in the wake of LOC_Event bomb blast in which nine persons were killed and 32 injured . . . The Home Ministry sounded an alert in three cities - Delhi , Kanpur and Indore - following inputs from intelligence agencies that public places in these cities may be on the radar screen of terrorists . The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party -LRB- BJP -RRB- is scheduled to hold its three-day national executive meeting in Indore from February 17 . . . We have intelligence inputs that terrorists may target Delhi , Kanpur and Indore . We have shared the information with all concerned and asked the state governments to take necessary action , a Home Ministry official said . . . A general advisory has already been sent to all states asking them to take necessary security steps in crowded localities , railway stations , bus terminals , vital installations , airports and other places . . . Preliminary probe has revealed that RDX and ammonium nitrate were used in the explosion that ripped through German bakery in LOC_Event . . . The high-level security review meeting at the Home Ministry was attended by the National Security Adviser Shiv Shanker Menon , Home Secretary G.K. Pillai , RAW chief K.C. Verma , IB Director Rajiv Mathur and other senior officials of the Ministry . Even as Maharashtra police investigators said little progress was made in identifying the perpetrators of Saturdays bombing of the LOC_Event in LOC_Event , an unknown Pakistan-based jihadist group has claimed responsibility for the attack that claimed 10 lives . . . Identifying himself as a spokesperson on behalf of a group calling itself the Lashkar-e-Taiba al-Almi , an individual using the code-name Abu Jindal said the bombing was carried out because of Indias refusal to discuss the Kashmir issue in the coming talks with Pakistan . . . Abu Jindal said he was calling from Miramshah in North Waziristan , and the telephone number used to make the call carried an area code common to the Waziristan tribal area and Bannu , the adjoining district in the North-West Frontier Province . When The Hindu tried calling back , though , a recorded voice message said the number was temporarily not in use . . . No past communiqu was issued by the Lashkar-e-Taiba al-Almi , and terrorism experts in New Delhi told The Hindu that no such group was known to exist . . . However , the caller who appeared to be educated said the group had split from the Lashkar-e-Taiba because it took orders from Pakistans Inter-Services Intelligence . . . Earlier , al-Qaeda affiliated jihadist leader Illyas Kashmiri was reported to have sent an e-mail to a Pakistani journalist , claiming responsibility for the attack . . . Indian intelligence sources said the claims appeared intended to deflect attention from the Lashkar-e-Taiba , which is emerging as the principal suspect for the attack . In the wake of the Lashkars 2008 attack on Mumbai , Pakistan had come under intense pressure to dismantle the terrorist group as well as its political-religious organisation , the Jamaat-ud-Dawa . It has , however , rejected international calls for such action . Despite official claims , Maharashtra police sources say there is little evidence as yet to link the bombing of the LOC_Event with any perpetrator . Siddhesh Inamdar and Rahi Gaikwad . . CCTV footage from hotel opposite German Bakery obtained ; 2 foreigners among 9 dead . . PUNE/MUMBAI : Even as a breakthrough in the Saturdays blast at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event eluded the police , the Maharashtra government on Sunday reviewed the security arrangements in Nagpur , Aurangabad and Nashik , besides Mumbai . It also ordered the tightening of security for American and Israeli establishments across the State . . . In LOC_Event , Police Commissioner Satyapal Singh told reporters on Sunday : No one has yet been detained . I also can not say about any involvement of the Indian Mujahideen at this point . It was too premature to comment if there was a pattern with the other blasts in the country , he said . . . Special Inspector-General , Law and Order , Rashmi Shukla , told journalists in Mumbai on Sunday : There was no CCTV camera in the LOC_Event . However , O Hotel , located opposite , had CCTVs , which covered the frontal area of the bakery . The ATS -LSB- Anti-Terrorism Squad -RSB- has that footage . . . An unclaimed bag was found under the table . A waiter was asked to remove the bag . Before he could remove it , the explosion took place . The blast left a hole of six feet by four feet in the bakery wall , Ms. Shukla said . . . Of the nine people killed in the blast , two were identified as foreigners Saied Abdulkhani -LRB- 26 -RRB- , an Iranian ; and Nadia Macerini -LRB- 37 -RRB- , an Italian . While Abdulkhani was a student of the Ferguson College in LOC_Event , Ms. Macerini was visiting the Osho International Meditation Centre , about 200 yards from the German Bakery . . . The rest of the casualties were students and employed youths . They were identified as : Ankik Dhar -LRB- 24 -RRB- from Kolkata ; his sister Anandi Dhar -LRB- 19 -RRB- ; P. Sindhuri -LRB- 22 -RRB- from Bangalore ; Vinita Gadani -LRB- 22 -RRB- from Mumbai ; Shilpa Goenka -LRB- 23 -RRB- from Kolkata ; Shankar Pansare -LRB- 40 -RRB- from LOC_Event in LOC_Event district ; and Gokul Nepali -LRB- 30 -RRB- , a waiter at the LOC_Event . . . Of the 60 injured -LRB- 46 men and 14 women -RRB- , 19 were discharged from hospitals . The injured include 12 foreigners : five from Iran , two each from Sudan and Nepal , and one each from Yemen , Taiwan and Germany . . . A day after the blast , the Bakery , one of the citys popular tourist landmarks , stood deserted . The road leading up to it was cordoned off . . . Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram visited the blast site during the day . He refuted suggestions that the government had not taken intelligence inputs seriously . . . He said : There is no intelligence failure . The State government had taken the advice seriously and the police put in place security measures in the hard targets . PUNE : Terror struck LOC_Event this evening when a powerful bomb ripped apart a popular bakery near a Jewish prayer house , killing eight people , including a foreigner , and injuring 32 in the first major attack since 26/11 carnage . . . The improvised explosive device , kept in an unattended packet outside the kitchen of the German bakery , exploded at around 7.30 pm when a waiter attempted to open it . . . `` It is most probably a terror attack . Forensic experts of CBI and team of National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) officials are being airlifted to LOC_Event to assist the state police in the investigations , '' Union Home Secretary G K Pillai said . . . The German bakery is a favourite food joint for foreigners , located close to Osho Ashram which had been surveyed by Pakistani-origin American David Coleman Headley , a Lashkar-e Taiba operative . . . Quoting information from the state government , Pillai said eight people had died and 32 were injured in the blast . One each of the killed and the injured are foreigners , he said , but could not give the nationality . . . The rest , he said , were believed to be Indians but the situation could change . . . Asked whether Pakistani hand was suspected behind the attack , Pillai said he could not say anything till forensic examination was over . . . Home Minister P Chidambaram , who is in Tamil Nadu , will visit LOC_Event tomorrow . He is closely monitoring the situation and the position is being reviewed periodically . . . The Home Ministry has issued an alert across the country asking people not to open any unattended object and to inform the police if they find any suspicious object . . . Pillai said the Union Home Ministry had issued an advisory to Maharashtra government informing it that the Osho Ashram was one of the sites surveyed by Headley . . . Headley , who was arrested by FBI at Chicago airport last year when he proceeding to board a flight to Pakistan , had visited a number of places in India , including the Mumbai terror attack targets . . . The site of this evening 's blast , that destroyed the bakery , was littered with severed limbs and pools of blood . A number of victims were charred beyond recognition , making it difficult for authorities to ascertain their identity . . . LOC_Event 's Additional Commissioner of Police Prabhat Kumar said `` it is a suspected terror attack and we are trying to find out the exact device used in the incident '' . . . LOC_Event Chief Minister Ashok Chavan said it was yet to be established as to what was the cause of the blast . He said he had talked to the Police Commissioner who told him that unless they examined the evidence on the scene of the blast they can not come to any conclusion . . . He said initially it was thought to be a cylinder blast . Forensic experts are there at the site and the exact cause was yet to be ascertained , Chavan added . . . The Chief Minister announced an ex-gratia of Rs one lakh for the kin of those killed and Rs 50,000 for those injured . . . `` I was travelling by an autorickshaw . I heard a loud explosion and the ground shook '' , said Santosh , one of the injured in the blast . . . An eyewitness said there was a loud bang which shook the entire area and `` we saw a fire '' . . . Was the LOC_Event blast an intelligence failure ? . Aditi Jindal , a 23-year-old from Ambala in Chandigarh , died around 8.30 p.m. on Friday at the Inlaks Budhrani hospital , taking the death toll in the LOC_Event bomb blast up to 17 . For the last few days , while Aditi remained critical , she was said to have a 50 per cent chance of survival . However , she succumbed to her injuries after battling for life for close to two weeks . . . When in Chandigarh , she had pursued dance and done a course in interior designing . In Pune , too , she was taking lessons at the Shiamak Davar Dance Academy . She was doing a course in landscape designing at the Marathwada Mitramandals College of Commerce here . . . On February 13 , she went to the LOC_Event along with a friend , Aditya Mehata . They were at the centre table of the bakery when the blast took place . Aditya , a final-year student of Electronics from New Delhi at the Bharati Vidyapeeth here , suffered around 60 per cent burns and died on February 17 at the Jehangir hospital . . . Aditi suffered around 40 per cent burns with first-degree burns on her face . Medical Superintendent of the Inlaks Budhrani hospital Dr. Asha Relwani said , Aditi was in a bad state and was critical . One of her legs had to be amputated , while the tendons of her other leg were severely damaged . Towards the end , she developed ARDS -LSB- Acute . . Respiratory Distress Syndrome -RSB- , as she also developed septicaemia . The infection and toxins had spread to her entire body . Aditis parents and her uncle and aunt were with her when she died . She also has two younger brothers . . . It is expected that the death toll in the blast would stay put now . While a few people continue to be in the Intensive Care Units of different hospitals , they are said to be out of danger . With the death of Anas AlFatih Suleiman , 21 , of Sudan on Wednesday , the death toll in the LOC_Event blast here has gone up to 16 . . . He is the fourth foreign national and the second Sudanese to have died in the blast . . . Anas was a first-year B.Sc . student of Poona College and an avid football player . On the day of the blast , Anas was in the LOC_Event , along with compatriot Amjed Algazoli , who died of injuries on Saturday . . . Anas had suffered 78 per cent chest injuries and was kept on life-support system at the Jehangir Hospital . . . He had been studying in LOC_Event for the past one-and-a-half years . Though he hailed from Khartoum , Sudans capital , he did schooling up to Std . 12 in Doha -LRB- Qatar -RRB- , where his father held a government job . He scored 73 per cent in his Std . 12 examinations . And then he came to LOC_Event for higher education and lived in the Kondhwa area . . . To improve his English , Anas had undertaken an English-speaking course at the Symbiosis College , said Attal Manal , a friend . Manal said he was very popular among his friends , as he was very intelligent and helpful . Anas parents , brother and one of his sisters were with him when he died . His other sister was to come to LOC_Event on Thursday to see him , said one of his friends , Ibrahim Hashim . The body will now be taken to Sudan for the last rites . . . The other foreigners who died in the blast were Nadia Macerini , 37 , an Italian on a visit to the Osho International Meditation Resort ; Saied Abdulkhani , 26 , a student of literature at the Symbiosis College ; and Amjed Algazoli , 25 . . . Thirteen persons are still under treatment at various hospitals . Seven of them are in Intensive Care Units , while six are in general wards , Police Commissioner Satyapal Singh said . Of the seven in the ICU , six are said to be out of danger . Aditi Jindal , admitted to Inlaks Budhrani Hospital , is in a critical condition . NetIndian News Network New Delhi , February 21 , 2010 Two more people today succumbed to injuries they suffered in the powerful bomb blast that devastated a popular eatery in LOC_Event on February 13 , taking the death toll in the terrorist attack to 15 , police said . LOC_Event police officials told NetIndian over the telephone that both persons breathed their last at the Jehangir Hospital in the city this morning , one at 0530 hours and the other at 1130 hours . One of them was identified as Rajeev Nandkumar Agarwal , 23 , who hailed from Kolkata and was a final year student of law at the Symbiosis Law College in LOC_Event . The other victim was identified by the police as Vikas Suresh Tulsiani , 24 , a resident of LOC_Event , who had completed his engineering degree and was looking for a job . Nine people had died and 57 others injured on the day of the blast that was set off by unidentified terrorists at the restaurant , located close to the Osho Ashram and a Jewish Chabad House . Since then , six people , including a Sudanese student , have succumbed to their injuries in hospital . About six of those still undergoing treatment in hospital are said to be in a serious condition . The blast at the `` LOC_Event '' in LOC_Event 's Koregaon Park area , frequented by foreigners and youngsters , was the first major terrorist incident in India after the November 26 , 2008 terror attacks in Mumbai , which claimed 166 lives . Four of those killed in the attack on the LOC_Event were foreigners . Apart from the Sudanese youth , the others were an Iranian youth , an Italian woman and a Nepalese youth who worked as a waiter at the restaurant . Reports from the forensic science laboratory in LOC_Event have stablished that ammonium nitrate , RDX and petroleum had been used in the explosive used by the perpetrators of the attack . Details about how the explosion was triggered , whether by a timer device or by remote conrol , were still not available . The blast occurred around 7.30 pm on February 13 when the restaurant was teeming with youngsters and foreigners . The explosion took place when a waiter noticed an unattended backpack under one of the tables and tried to open it . The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad ( ATS ) is investigating the case with assistance from officials of the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) . The Osho Ashram and the Chabad House had both been surveyed by suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba operative David Coleman Headley during one of his visits to India . Headley , a US national of Pakistani origin , and Tahawwur Hussain Rana , also believed to be an LeT operative , were arrested by the United States ' Federal Bureau of Investigation ( FBI ) from Chicago in October last year for allegedly conspiring to carry out terrorist attacks in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . Subsequent investigations have led the authorities in the LOC_Event and LOC_Event to believe that the two men were involved in the conspiracy to carry out the 26/11 attacks in Mumbai . NNN . . . PUNE : Terror returned to haunt the country on Saturday when a bomb blast ripped through the city 's popular German Bakery , close to the LOC_Event and diagonally across from the LOC_Event , recced by 26/11 suspect David Coleman Headley , killing at least nine people , four of them foreigners , all women . -LRB- Watch Video -RRB- More than 45 people have been rushed to hospital with varying degrees of injury . This is the first terror attack since the 26/11 Mumbai attacks , 15 months ago . For the last two months , there has been a growing buzz of an imminent terror attack , especially as India and Pakistan were preparing to resume talks that have been suspended since the Mumbai carnage . Now there is a question mark over the talks scheduled for February 25 in Delhi . The blast , which left a 6ftx4ft hole in the wall , took place at 7.15 pm when the bakery was milling with people , many of them foreigners . According to Union home secretary G K Pillai , there was an unattended packet which exploded when a waiter tried to open it . The LOC_Event is a popular haunt of foreigners like Leopold restaurant in Mumbai in fact , both are mentioned by the Lonely Planet tourist guide and are therefore patronised by many backpackers . Investigators from the Army 's bomb disposal squad said it appears that a battery-operated improvised explosive device had been used . '' We have found traces of an explosive , '' said M Z Ansari , an official . The impact was such that the walls of the bakery caved in . Body parts of some of the dead were found strewn on the North Main Road and near the O Hotel , a few metres from the bakery . '' The dead include some foreigners but we are yet to establish their nationality , '' minister of state for home Ramesh Bagwe said . The injured suffered burns and fractures , said doctors at Sassoon hospital . Chabad House in Mumbai which was attacked on 26/11 had been recced by Headley , just as he had recced the one in LOC_Event . Headley had stayed at the Surya Villa hotel in Koregaon , which is close to the blast site . In Delhi , Pillai called an emergency meeting of security officials and instructed all state capitals to be put on high alert . A team also began interrogation of the Batla House terror suspect , Shahzad Ahmad , to find out if he had any information about an attack in Pune . The Centre immediately moved in to rush a forensic team to Pune . ` It is most probably a terror attack . We are sending a forensic team of CBI and personnel of National Investigative Agency , ' said Union home secretary G K Pillai . Panic gripped the city as the news of the blast spread . The police , however , refused to confirm whether any terror group was involved , saying it was too early to arrive at any conclusion . The police closed all roads to LOC_Event area and a nakabandi has been ordered across the city . '' We suspect foreigners could be involved in this blast , '' said special secretary -LRB- home -RRB- U K Bansal , when asked in Delhi whether he suspected any specific terror group . The state home minister R R Patil reached Pune late on Saturday night , while chief minister Ashok Chavan is expected to be in the city on Saturday . Maharashtra deputy CM Chhagan Bhujbal and some officials said that police had inputs about a threat to the LOC_Event and security had been beefed up in the Koregaon area , but state home minister R R Patil denied there was any intelligence input about an attack . Ninepeople were killed and up to 57 , including five to six foreigners and women , injured in a bomb explosion that ripped apart a popular LOC_Event near a LOC_Event here in the first terror attack since the carnage in Mumbai 14 months ago.The site of the blast in Pune.The blast -- suspected to be an Improvised Explosive Device -- took place around 7.15 pm at the LOC_Event , an old business establishment in the Cantonment area of the city and a favourite joint for foreigners visiting the nearby Osho Ashram set up by Rajneesh . TV reports put the foreigner toll at one.US terror suspect David Headley is believed to have stayed at the Ashram during his visit to the city.There was a bomb blast . There have been eight deaths and 33 people were injured , said LOC_Event 's Joint Commissioner of Police Rajendra Sonwane.It 's most probably a terror attack . We are sending a forensic team of CBI and personnel of National Investigative Agency ( NIA ) , Union Home Secretary Gopal Krishna Pillai said in New Delhi.While some foreigners were believed among the dead , a senior police official said it was difficult to confirm their identity and nationalty as their faces were charred beyond recognition.Police said there was a packet outside the kitchen of the LOC_Event and when the waiters were calling the police , the IED went off.Maharashtra Minister of State for Home Ramesh Bagve , who is an MLA from the constituency , said up to 40 people were injured , three of them seriously.He said five to six foreigners were among the injured.Special Secretary in Union Home Ministry U K Bansal said foreigners are among the eight dead.It is a suspected bomb blast . So far , it is not confirmed . We are verifying this , Sonwane said adding we have not arrived at any conclusion at this stage but prima facie it appears that it is a bomb blast.A team of Anti-Terrorism Squad and bomb disposal squad visited the spot to ascertain the nature of the blast.The scene of the blast , that destroyed the bakery , was littered with thick patches of blood and severed limbs.Bagve said the police is exploring all angles , including terror.Pune 's Additional Commissioner of Police Prabhat Kumar said , It is a suspected terror attack and we are trying to find out the exact device used in the incident.Sonewane said the nationality of the dead was being ascertained.Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan said it was yet to be established as to what was the cause of the blast . He said he had talked to the Police Commissioner who told him that unless they examined the evidence on the scene of the blast they can not come to any conclusion.He said initially it was thought to be a cylinder blast.Forensic experts are there at the site and the exact cause was yet to be ascertained , Chavan added.I was travelling by an autorickshaw . I heard a loud explosion and the ground shook , said Santosh , one of the injured in the blast.An eyewitness said there was a loud bang which shook the entire area and we saw a fire.NIA to investigateTeams of forensic experts from NIA , CBI and IB have also been rushed to LOC_Event . The NIA will probe the blast . ATS sources have told Headlines Today that Indian Mujahhiddin Operatives are suspected to be behind the attack . Delhi blast suspect Shahjad is being probed . LOC_Event is a popular joint just opposite the Osho Commune lane in Pune.The bakery is a nerve centre of sorts for the entire area and is frequented by foreigners visiting the Osho Commune.A high-level security meet is on at the residence of Pillai . Meanwhile , Force one has al ; so been rushed to Pune.Maha had received inputs but none was specific : BhujbalIn the wake of a suspected terror attack in LOC_Event , Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Chagan Bhujbal on Saturday said the state had received a lot of inputs from intelligence agencies but none of them was specific.We are receiving a lot of inputs from intelligence agencies . But it does not say where it will happen , when it will happen or who will do it . We do n't have such details , he said.He was responding to a question whether the state had received prior reports about possibility of terror strike in the state.Condemning the terror strike , he said the police was doing its best to secure people.ATS zeroes in on IMMohsin Chowdhry , who founded IM module in LOC_Event , is the key supect , sources said.Chowdhry was also involved in Jaipur and ahmedabad blasts.High alert in MaharashtraA high alert has been sounded in the state following the blast in LOC_Event , police said.The state police has been asked to remain on high alert , a senior police official told PTI.The security for the Indian cricket team has been beefed up.Maha CM announces ex-gratia to LOC_Event blast victimsMaharashtra Chief Minsiter Ashok Chavan on Saturday announced Rs one lakh each to those killed in this evening 's LOC_Event blast.The government will pay Rs one lakh to the kin of each victim of the blast and Rs 50,000 each to those injured , an official said.BJP attacks Maharashtra government over LOC_Event blastOpposition BJP in New Delhi attacked the Maharashtra government over the LOC_Event blast , alleging it was engaged in protecting the makers of the film My Name is Khan leaving the terrorists scot free to attack.The whole Congress led government and police in Maharashtra were engaged in protecting the interests of the actor , director , producer and distributor of My Name is Khan on the orders of Rahul Gandhi , BJP vice president Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said.He said , This left the terrorists scot free to attack innocent people in LOC_Event . Congress , however , condemned the statement of the BJP saying it was unfortunate that political parties were trying to take mileage from an unfortunate incident.The incident is very unfortunate . Nobody should play politics with with the security system of the country , party spokesman Shakeel Ahmed said.He said no political party should make a statement which jeopardises the country 's fight against terror.This is a time for all of us to stay united.Unfortunately some political parties are trying to take a mileage out of it . This is pathetic , Ahmed said.Not alright to say entire LOC_Event targeted , says PawarIt is not alright to conclude after this evening 's blast in LOC_Event that entire LOC_Event city was targeted , Union Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar has said in Mumbai.It is not alright to arrive at a conclusion that the entire LOC_Event city has been targeted , Pawar said . The place where the blast took place is an isolated area , he added.I have spoken to Home Minister R R Patil , district guardian minister Ajit Pawar and district collector , Pawar said.On the issue of American terror suspect David Headley 's visits to the Osho Ashram located near the LOC_Event in Koregaon Park which witnessed the bomb blast , Pawar said I have no information as yet to reach this conclusion . Expressing confidence that people of LOC_Event will face the incident with a brave face , Pawar said when I was Chief Minister , Mumbai saw 11 simultaneous blasts but everything returned to normal soon . There is no need for LOC_Event residents to panic , Pawar said.Reconsider proposed dialogue with Pak , BJP tells CentreIn LOC_Event , BJP spokesman Prakash Jawadekar , who visited the blast site , on Saturday night demanded government reconsider the proposed dialogue with Pakistan in the wake of the blast here.Terror and talks can not go together , he told reporters at the blast site.With PTI . A seventh person Ahmad Siddi Bappa alias Imran , believed to be the `` main man '' who was allegedly providing finance and other logistics besides coordinating various modules , is on the run , police sources said on Wednesday . . . Imran had allegedly planted the bomb in a car outside Delhi 's LOC_Event on September 19 , 2010 , the sources said . . . Police smashed an `` Indian Mujahideen terrorist module suspected to be involved in LOC_Event blast , Chinnaswamy LOC_Event blast and LOC_Event firing and blast in a car with the help of central intelligence agencies '' , a Delhi Police statement said . . . The arrested have been identified as Pakistani national Mohd Adil , Mohd Qateel Siddique , Mohd Irshad Khan , Gauhar Aziz Khomani , Gayur Ahmad Jamali and Abdur Rehman . . . `` The arrests came following a coordinated action with central agencies and police forces in West Bengal , Tamil Nadu and Bihar , '' a senior police official said . . . Two AK-47 rifles along with 50 cartridges , one 9mm pistol along with 14 live cartridges , 1.4 kgs of black explosive material , 3.2 kgs of white explosive material , 350 gms granular off white explosive material , 5 detonators and fake Indian currency notes of the face value of Rs 2 lakh along with other incriminating material were recovered from the six arrested , he said . . . The first to be arrested was Siddiqui -LRB- 27 -RRB- from near Anand Vihar Bus Terminal on November 22 . A 9 mm loaded pistol along with 14 live cartridges besides fake Indian currency were seized from him . Sources said he along with Adil were allegedly involved in the Jama Masjid incident . . . `` Two fake passports , one forged identity card of National Cadet Corps and one fake driving licence in the name of Vivek Mishra were recovered , '' the official said . . . The statement said Siddiqui 's interrogation led to the revelation that an Indian Mujahideen terrorist module was led by Bappa alias Shahrukh alias Yashin Ahmad alias Imran alias Asif of Bhatkal in Karnataka . . . On November 23 , Khomani -LRB- 31 -RRB- was apprehended from Delhi . . . His interrogation led to raids in in Madhubani , Bihar and the next day , Jamali -LRB- 21 -RRB- was arrested . On November 25 , Adil -LRB- 40 -RRB- , who hails from Karachi , was apprehended from Madhubani . `` Adil came to India in August 2010 on the instructions of Riaz and Iqbal Bhatkal for action , '' the statement said . . . Further raids in Chennai on November 27 led to the apprehension of Khan -LRB- 52 -RRB- and Abdur Rahman -LRB- 19 -RRB- . . . `` Siddiqi came in contact with Ahmad Siddi Bappa alias Imran in the last quarter of 2008 and became a member of the terrorist module Indian Mujahiddin . Khan met Bappa in the first quarter of 2009 . They became close associates and he also joined the Indian Mujahiddin terrorist module . . . `` All the six members came in contact with Bappa at various occasions . Khomani came in contact with Bappa . In 2007 he came to Delhi and in November 2008 he renewed his contact with Bappa and joined Indian Mujahiddin . He provided them logistic and financial support . . . Jamali came in contact with Bappa and joined Indian Mujahiddin later . Rahman met Bappa about four months ago and become a member of Indian Mujahiddin . He provided hide out and logistic support , '' the statement said . . . Seventeen people were killed in the German Bakery blast and over 40 people have been arrested in this case . . . This is , however , the first arrest in the Jama Masjid terror strike case . . . 15 people were injured in the blast outside LOC_Event 's LOC_Event during an IPL match on April 17 , 2010 . . . Two Taiwanese tourists were injured in the firing at LOC_Event on September 19 , 2010 ahead of Commonwealth Games here while no one was injured in the explosion in a car the same day . Pune : Mirza Himayat Baig , the lone convicted accused in the 2010 German Bakery bombing that killed 17 and wounded 64 , was on Thursday sentenced to death for murder and criminal conspiracy by a sessions court here which termed his crime as ` rarest of rare ' . . . Additional sessions judge N P Dhote , after hearing the day-long arguments on the quantum of sentence , pronounced his verdict , saying the case fell under the ` rarest of the rare ' category warranting the most severe punishment . . . The court had on April 15 pronounced Baig , the only person arrested in the blast at the popular eatery on February 13 , 2010 , that brought Pune on the terror radar , guilty of involvement in the crime . Six others named in the charge sheet in the case , including Yasin Bhatkal who is alleged to have planted the bomb , are still absconding . . . The judge sentenced Baig to death under sections 302 ( murder ) , 120 ( b ) ( criminal conspiracy ) , of IPC , besides section 16 ( a ) of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act ( UAPA ) and section 3 of Explosive Substances Act which attract death penalty . He was also awarded concurrent life imprisonment under various other sections of IPC , UAPA and Explosives Substances Act . . . Baig , who had looked composed when pronounced guilty three days back , was shaken and momentarily fainted today after the judge read out the sentence . . . He was given water to drink while being escorted out of the court by policemen under tight security even as some social groups burst firecrackers outside the premises hailing the judicial system . . . When asked by the judge as to what he had to say about the verdict , Baig broke down and pleaded innocence , alleging that he had been falsely implicated in the case by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad led by Rakesh Maria . . . ' I am innocent and have nothing to do with the German Bakery bombing . Police have failed to nab the real culprit and I have been made the scapegoat in the case . While 17 persons died in the explosion , I have been made the 18th victim , ' he told the judge . . . Earlier , public prosecutor Raja Thakre , pressing for death penalty argued that the court had held the accused guilty under 14 out of 17 charges levelled against him including those of murder , criminal conspiracy and possession of the deadly RDX . . . ` The accused committed an act of terror in pursuance of a criminal conspiracy . The image of India will be lowered in the eyes of the international community if there is no guarantee of safety in the country as among the deceased in the bomb blast were five foreigners . . . ` Baig was in possession of the special category explosive substance such as RDX and was also in the company of the person who planted bomb in the bakery , ' Thakre said , contending there were no mitigating circumstances to show leniency to Baig . . . Referring to defence counsel ` s argument that young age ( 33 ) of the accused too was a ground for a lighter sentence , Thakre said terrorists Kasab and Yakub Memon were also given death sentence notwithstanding their age . . . ` It is a fit case for extreme penalty of death for social justice and does not deserve any leniency , ' he said . . . Defence counsel A Rahaman said the case did not fall under the rarest of the rare category and the alleged links of the accused with Indian Mujahiddin ( IM ) and Lashker-e-Toiba ( LeT ) had not been proved . . . ` The actual culprit Yasin Bhatkal , who planted the bomb is absconding . Baig never visited the German Bakery to plant the bomb . Death penalty is an exception and life sentence should be the rule , ' he told the court , pleading for a lenient view to taken . . . Rahman later said he would go in appeal to High court against the sentence . . . A heavy security blanket was thrown in and around the court when Baig was brought under heavy escort by Maharashtra ATS and state police personnel . . . The judge upheld all prosecution charges against Baig except for those relating to forgery under sections 465 , 467 and 468 of IPC . . . The 33-year-old Baig , who hails from Beed district of Maharashtra , was convicted of hatching a criminal conspiracy in March 2008 in Colombo with six other accused -- Yasin Bhatkal , Mohsin Chaudhary , Riyaz Bhatkal , Iqbal Bhatkal , Fayyaz Kagzi and Zabiuddin Ansari alias Abu Jundal . . . Barring Jundal , one of the handlers of 26/11 terrorists , all others are absconding . Jundal , facing trial in several terror cases , has not been arrested in the German Bakery blast . . . The bombing of the popular eatery located in plush Koregaon Park area of the city in the vicinity of the Osho Ashram and Jewish community centre , had exposed vulnerability of the city as a terrorist target . . . LeT operative David Headley had recced the bakery during his various visits to India to scout for potential terror targets . Continued terrorist attacks against India sponsored by Pakistan can not coexist with bilateral talks , the Bhartiya Janata Party said on Sunday . . . Even before the Saturdays blast in LOC_Event , the party had opposed the resumption of talks , arguing that Islamabad had failed to keep its promise of dismantling the terrorist infrastructure in the Pakistan occupied Kashmir -LRB- PoK -RRB- in the joint statement of January 2004 . . . The partys core group met on Sunday to review the situation . Immediately afterwards , Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley said the government must reconsider resuming the Foreign Secretary-level dialogue , scheduled to start on February 25 . Not holding talks was a legitimate diplomatic option , he said . . . Unfortunate . . BJP president Nitin Gadkari described the LOC_Event blast as an unfortunate incident . . . At a function where he came straight after presiding over the core committee meeting , Mr. Gadkari said he and Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj would go to LOC_Event and meet the victims . . . Ms. Swaraj was to be felicitated by the BJP womens wing for her election as the Leader of the Opposition , but she did not attend the function , as it would not be proper to celebrate after the attack . . . Mr. Jaitley warned the government of falling into a trap and contemplating adventurist steps such as allowing Kashmiri youth to return from PoK where they attended terrorist camps . In a statement , he said : The BJP urges the government to reconsider both these steps : allowing persons from PoK to return and resuming the dialogue with Pakistan . Terror and talks can not coexist . . . The core committee felt that targeting the LOC_Event in the neighbourhood of a synagogue and a Jewish Chabad House was aimed at creating an international impact . . . Mr. Jaitley said the LOC_Event blast was a grim reminder of the fragility of the countrys security . The government must introspect whether our intelligence gathering and our response to it were adequate . He wondered how and why the LOC_Event , visited by American David Headley , who is known to have visited Mumbai several times before 26/11 to work out details for Pakistani terror outfits , was not better protected . The Polit Bureau said media reports that there were warnings of a possible attack in LOC_Event ` are disturbing as these attacks have taken place despite this . ' . . In a statement , the party said it was imperative in the interests of the country 's security that such lapses were rectified urgently . . . The Polit Bureau called upon the Central government to provide assistance to Maharashtra to ` identify the culprits . ' . . It also conveyed its condolences to the families of victims and wished the injured a speedy recovery . . . Bring out truth : CPI . . The Communist Party of India demanded that the government bring out the truth behind the blast and expose those responsible for it . . . Its national secretary D. Raja said the government should speak through its actions and not indulge in rhetoric stating that there was no intelligence failure . New Delhi : The government says that six men who have been arrested are allegedly members of Indian Mujahideen terror group and are responsible for attacks in three cities in 2010 . The men , who include one Pakistani , were arrested from different parts of the country . Investigators claimed the arrested persons were allegedly involved in the Pune German LOC_Event blast in February last year in which 17 people were killed ; an explosion at LOC_Event 's LOC_Event during an IPL match in April 2010 ; and a blast in car outside the Jama Masjid mosque in September last year ahead of the Commonwealth Games . Police sources said the mastermind of the attacks is named Imran or Yaseen Bhatkal and is missing . A photo released of him today purportedly shows him leaving behind a bag with the bomb that would explode at the LOC_Event . -LRB- Read Delhi Police on arrests of alleged terrorists -RRB- . The arrest of terror suspect Abdul Samad -LRB- 23 -RRB- on Monday from the Bajpe airport was a meticulously planned operation according to highly placed sources of the district police . . . Samad was arrested inside the airport at around 8.40 a.m. as he was attempting to get past the immigration check point after landing in an Air India Express plane IX 812 coming from Dubai . The team Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad , which had prior information about his arrival , coordinated with the local police manning the immigration centre and swooped down on the suspect the moment he tried to clear the check post , sources said . Caught inside the airport , which has several layers of security , Samad had very little room to escape . He was arrested using a Lookout Notice that was issued by the Mumbai police to almost every major airport in the country . . . Samad was trying to slip into the country through the Bajpe Airport by taking advantage of the situation that prevailed following the May 22 crash of the Air India Express flight . . . ATS in Mangalore for over a month . . Local police sources said the personnel of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad were camping at Bhatkal and Mangalore for over a month leading up to the eventual arrest of the suspect . Their primary pursuit during this period was gathering as much information about the man as possible . . . Samad , who police say is registered as a Hotel Management student at Bangalore , is a native of the seaside town of Bhatkal 120 km north of Mangalore in the Uttara Kannada district of the State . . . PTI adds : . . Abdul Samad Bhatkal , a prime suspect in the German Bakery blast in Pune , was on Tuesday remanded in police custody till June 1 by a local court in connection with a 2009 illegal arms seizure case . . . He was produced before the Mazgaon metropolitan magistrate . Asked by the court if he wanted a stateappointed lawyer to defend him , he said , No . I would appoint a lawyer for myself at a later stage . . . In August 2009 , three persons were arrested from south Mumbai for possession of illegal firearms which , according to the ATS , were supplied by Abdul . . . In 2008 , Abdul was picked up by Mangalore police for his alleged role in July 2008 blasts in Bangalore . However , he was let off due to lack of evidence after which he went to Dubai , ATS officials said . . . Home Minister P. Chidambaram on Tuesday said Abdul Bhatkal is the prime suspect in the German Bakery blast in Pune in February which left 17 people dead . . . The ATS is also on the lookout for Yasin Bhatkal , a relative of Riyaz Bhatkal , founder of terror outfit Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- . U.S. President Barack Obama called Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday morning to condemn the blast that took place in LOC_Event on Saturday and to condole the loss of lives . In a brief conversation , the two leaders took the opportunity to review developments in Indo-U.S. relations , according to a statement from the Prime Ministers Office . . . PTI adds : . . The Obama administration has offered FBI help in the investigation into Saturdays blast at the LOC_Event , a popular eatery in Punes posh LOC_Event area . . . The U.S. State Department has said it is working with India and Pakistan to combat the threats the three countries face from terrorist and extremist groups . . . ` The information we have shared so far has been quite unprecedented , and we intend to continue to working with the Government of India to try and protect our two societies from these types of attacks , ' Acting US State Department Spokesman Gordon Duguid said . Special Correspondent . . Denies there was intelligence failure . . States urged to have their own anti-terrorist forces . . NEW DELHI : Home Minister P. Chidambaram on Tuesday said the bomb blast in Pune 's German Bakery on February 13 despite the Centre sharing enough intelligence about the terror threat was a blot on our record . . . Seventeen persons including some foreigners were killed in the blast . . . Mr. Chidambaram claimed that there was no intelligence failure as enough information was shared with the Maharashtra police about specific targets in LOC_Event . In turn , the Pune police on October 9 , 2009 , sent advisories to various establishments , including the German Bakery and its manager Praveen Pant even acknowledged receipt of the police 's letter . But the German Bakery and some other establishments did not pay heed to the warning . Again in December 2009 , the same advisory was reiterated . . . The Minister , who was responding to a supplementary question in the Lok Sabha on the LOC_Event blast , said : Despite the intelligence shared , despite the advisories issued , the LOC_Event blast occurred . It is a blot . I regard that as a blot on our record . The Centre monitors and reviews the internal security situation on a continuous basis . Intelligence inputs are regularly shared with State governments and Union Territories and wherever necessary , advisories are also issued . . . Mr. Chidambaram said the Centre helped the State governments under the police modernisation scheme to establish an elite Anti-Terrorist Force -LRB- ATF -RRB- . Six States had so far raised their own ATFs . Some States had Quick Reaction Teams which were smaller units . . . He urged all the States to have their own ATFs and promised Central assistance for procuring weapons , bullet-proof jackets and accessories . If the States want to ride piggy back on the Centre they can give their requirement and need not undergo the tendering process . . . On procuring bullet-proof jackets for the Central forces , he said the final decision on the tendering process would be taken on April 3 or 4 . . . He expressed confidence that threats from terrorists would be countered as things were improving , the capacity -LRB- of the police -RRB- was being strengthened and the police forces were becoming more efficient . But it will take time to have a more strong anti-terrorist capacity in this country , he said . A powerful blast shook LOC_Event when Ganga aarti ' was under way on Tuesday evening , killing a two-year-old girl and injuring over 21 people . Among the injured are some foreigners . . . The blast , occurring a day after the 18 -LCB- + t -RCB- -LCB- + h -RCB- anniversary of the demolition of the Babri Masjid , was so powerful that the stairs leading to the LOC_Event were ripped apart . With the Indian Mujahideen reportedly claiming responsibility for the explosion , the incident marked the return of terrorism in LOC_Event , which had not witnessed a militant strike since the attack on the Rampur CRPF group centre in the intervening night of December 31 , 2007 and January 1 , 2008 . . . This is the second time in around six years that LOC_Event has been targeted by terror outfits . The last attack was in 2005 , when militants struck at the Sankat Mochan temple and the railway station . . . A state of high alert has been sounded in the State , with very heavy security in Ayodhya , Mathura and other sensitive places , including Lucknow and Kanpur . . . Initial reports said it was a low intensity blast . A stampede that followed is said to have caused most of the injuries . . . ADG -LRB- Law and Order -RRB- Brij Lal told reporters in Lucknow that anti-terrorist and bomb disposal squads had reached the LOC_Event . The exact nature of the explosion would be confirmed only after experts examined the site . The ADG said the blast occured around 7 p.m. when Ganga aarti ' was being performed at the LOC_Event and the adjacent Dasashwamedh Ghat . . . He said the explosive device was purportedly placed under the stairs leading to the LOC_Event on the LOC_Event . Mr. Lal , however , denied that security was lax , considering that hundreds of tourists , both domestic and foreign , gathered daily on the LOC_Event to witness and participate in the religious ritual . He denied that the State government had ignored the advisory sent by the Centre about the possibility of a terror strike in LOC_Event . . . Chief Minister Mayawati despatched senior Minister Swamy Prasad Maurya , Director-General of Police Karamveer Singh , Chief Secretary Atul Kumar Gupta and Principal Secretary -LRB- Home -RRB- Kunwar Fateh Bahadur to LOC_Event . . . Governor B.L. Joshi condemned the incident and described the explosion as a dastardly act aimed at disturbing the peace and harmony in the State . He wished the injured , who have been admitted to hospitals , speedy recovery . Notwithstanding the reported involvement of banned terror outfit Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- in the LOC_Event bomb blast , and the name of a medico , Shahnawaz , surfacing as the probable mastermind , the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said that no breakthrough had been made so far . . . Tuesday 's powerful explosion at the LOC_Event on the banks of the Ganga during the aarti ceremony killed a child and injured 38 people . . . ADG -LRB- Law and Order -RRB- Brij Lal admitted here that the blast was a terrorist attack . Although the forensic experts , Special Task Force and the Anti-Terrorism Squad have been pressed into service , as of now no headway has been made in the case , Mr. Lal said , adding that investigations were under way . . . The State 's security agencies and bomb experts seemed to be groping in the dark about the nature of the explosive device , and about whether a bomb had indeed been planted . . . No circuit , battery , remote device , shrapnel , or pellets have been found by the investigating agencies at the blast site , Mr. Lal told journalists , adding that the remnants collected from the site had been sent for chemical analysis . . . He said the injuries to people were caused by chips from stones that were ripped apart , not from shrapnels . . . He denied that a live bomb had been recovered from near the blast site on Tuesday . . . Email traced . . Asked about the email in which the IM reportedly claimed responsibility for the blast , Mr. Lal said it was intercepted by the ATS . The mail was traced to the wifi system of one Mithilesh Thakkar , who resides in Navi Mumbai . Mr. Thakkar works as a branch manager in Reliance and has an unsecured Airtel broadband connection without a password , which made access easy . . . Of the 38 people injured in the blast , five are foreign nationals three Italians , a German , and a South Korean . While 21 of the injured have been admitted to the Sir Sunderlal Hospital in Banaras Hindu University , 12 are at the Shiv Prasad Gupta Hospital in Kabir Chaura in LOC_Event . . . The others have been admitted to the Heritage Hospital and Singh Medical and Research Centre . . . Two-year-old Swastika Sharma died during treatment at Sir Sunderlal Hospital . . . Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati , who visited LOC_Event late on Tuesday night , inspected the blast site and announced a compensation of Rs .1 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased , Rs .50,000 each for the seriously injured , and Rs .25,000 each for those with minor injuries . . . A terrorist act : Left . . Sandeep Dikshit writes from New Delhi : . . The Left parties on Wednesday condemned the LOC_Event blast , with the Communist Party of India -LRB- Marxist -RRB- terming it a terrorist act . . . In a statement , the CPI -LRB- M -RRB- Polit Bureau said the claim made by the so-called Indian Mujahideen showed that extremist elements were still attempting to disturb the country 's social fabric and communal amity through such senseless acts of violence . . . The party called on all secular forces to isolate the communal forces that had become the breeding grounds for extremist violence . It was essential to firmly combat -LSB- extremist -RSB- groups -LSB- both Hindu and Muslim -RSB- indulging in terrorism . . . The Communist Party of India -LRB- CPI -RRB- said the blast was a senseless , shameful act which was intended to attack secularism and create hatred among people . . . Making the same point as the CPI -LRB- M -RRB- about the involvement of extremists belonging to both communities in previous bomb blasts , it wanted them to be dealt with determination and asked the people to be vigilant against terrorist and communal activities . . . The party also demanded ex gratia payment to those affected by the blast . . . The U.S. and Germany have condemned the blasts . . . U.S. Ambassador Timothy Roemer said he was saddened by the blast in a city well known for tolerance and acceptance of religious diversity . . . Deputy Head of the German Embassy Christian-Matthias Schlaga met Union Home Secretary G.K. Pillai and expressed his country 's condolences and condemned the act . Protesting the bomb blast at LOC_Event in LOC_Event on Tuesday in which one child was killed and several other devotees were injured , activists of Bharatiya Janata Party -LRB- BJP -RRB- burnt the effigy of Indian Mujahideen ' at V.R. Centre in Nellore on Wednesday . . . The party activists raised slogans against the terrorist groups who were trying to create panic and unrest among the people at holy places . Alleging that the government was not serious measures to control terrorists in the country , they demanded to suppress militant and terrorist groups with iron hand . . . BJP district secretary M. Ramesh and others participated in the protest . A day after the bomb blast at LOC_Event 's LOC_Event , Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati in a move aimed at giving a clean chit to the State intelligence and security agencies said on Wednesday that no specific actionable intelligence input had been received -LSB- from the Centre -RSB- regarding the bomb blast . . . A fax was received by the State government on February 25 , 2010 , pertaining to the possibility of a terror attack on the LOC_Event in LOC_Event during the Dussehra festival . This certainly can not be taken as a specific actionable intelligence input , she said . . . The Chief Minister said general alerts were sounded pertaining to the anniversaries of the 26/11 attacks and the Babri Masjid demolition , but these could not be taken as specific actionable intelligence inputs . . . Ms. Mayawati accused the Centre of lacking the will to contain terrorism , which , she said , had assumed the form of a national problem . The ultras are taking advantage of the Central government 's weakness , she said , adding that until the country 's borders are secure , terrorism can not be eliminated . . . On alleged security failure by the State agencies being the reason for the Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- planting an explosive device at Sheetla Ghat , Ms. Mayawati said that as per normal practice the ghats were sanitised on Tuesday by the police by 5 p.m. before the Ganga aarti began at 6 p.m. . Since the aarti drew large crowds , it was not possible to stop everyone from entering the ghat . After the ghat was sanitised , the responsibility was handed over to the priests . . . No lapses were committed by the police , Cabinet Secretary Shashank Shekhar Singh said at a press conference on behalf of Ms. Mayawati . He added that the police were present when the Ganga aarti was being performed , but not in the midst of the ritual . . . However , how the IM operatives managed to plant the explosive device despite police presence was left unexplained . Mr. Singh said probe was under way . . . Ms. Mayawati 's reaction came within hours of Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram 's visit to LOC_Event . . . After visiting the LOC_Event and the Sir Sunderlal Hospital in Banaras Hindu University -LRB- BHU -RRB- , where he met the injured , Mr. Chidambaram told journalists that a specific advisory had been sent to the State Government in February 2010 about ultras planning to attack the ghat . He added that the first responsibility of providing security lay with the State . . . Mr. Singh said Ms. Mayawati wrote to the Prime Minister on Wednesday demanding 125 companies of Central para-military forces . The State Government has increased security cover near important places of worship following an advisory issued by the Union Home Ministry in the aftermath of the recent bomb blast in LOC_Event . . . Minister for Home and Transport R. Ashok told presspersons here on Tuesday that the alert from the Union Government is general and a regular advisory . It has asked the State Government to tighten security at important places of worship in the State and has also advised a security vigil in Bangalore . Mr. Ashok said the Home Department will provide tight security for the elections to the zilla and taluk panchayats to ensure free and fair polling . In addition to security at the polling stations , steps would be taken to ensure that law and order is not disrupted , he noted . The Home Department has conducted several rounds of discussions in this regard with top-ranking police officers . . . Liquor sales . . Sources said that steps are being taken to ensure that the poll norms do not come in the way of liquor sales in Bangalore during Christmas and the New Year Eve . . . It is learnt that the Police Department will take up the issue with the State Election Commission as the panchayat elections are not being held in Bangalore . . . Meanwhile , some Christian organisations are learnt to have represented to the Home Department seeking that the ban on liquor sales should not be imposed on Christmas Day . . . The State Government is said to be of the view that the Election Commission should relax the model code of conduct in cities where elections are not being held . . . It follows a Union Home Ministry advisory Union Government advises security vigil in Bangalore . The long-pending proposals for up-gradation of the existing security mechanism at the famous Sri Seetharamachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam have once again come into sharp focus in the aftermath of the bomb blast at the temple city of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday . . . Dog squad . . Sources say that the security agencies concerned have issued instructions to the personnel manning the temple to remain vigilant to prevent untoward incidents during the ensuing Vaikunta Ekadasi festival , which attracts thousands of devotees to the shrine . . . A dog squad has also been deployed at the temple as part of heightened security measures . . . However , the deficiencies in the existing security mechanism , particularly the inadequate number of security personnel and lack of sophisticated security devices , have become a cause for concern . . . The temple security is being manned by the Special Protection Force consisting of two head constables and nine constables , in association with the town police . . . Foolproof plan . . In an effort to revamp the security set-up at the temple , the authorities concerned have drawn up a foolproof security plan and sent the proposals to the government for up-gradation of the whole security system at the temple long ago , sources added . . . The plan envisages enhancement of the security and surveillance mechanism , including strengthening of the existing CCTV camera system , and appointment of a SI rank officer to head the SPF team at the temple . The Popular Front of India -LRB- PFI -RRB- has strongly condemned the bomb blast which took place in Varanasi on December 7 . . . In a press release here on Friday , PFI Udupi district unit president Niyamath Ali said that the blast was a senseless and a shameful act . It was done with the purpose for creating terror among people and disturbing inter-community relations . . . Such acts were intended to weaken the people 's united struggle for justice on the Babri Masjid issue . On December 7 , 2010 a bombing in the holy city of LOC_Event killed an 18-month-old child and injured as many as 40 people . Radical Muslim group , the Indian Mujahideen , has claimed responsibility . . . The incident underscores several important points . First , it points to the substantially degraded capability of the Indian Mujahideen , a homegrown terror network that claimed responsibility for this act in its trademark email , which was sent from Mallad , Mumbai . . . Although the LOC_Event blast is a chilling reminder from the IM that its still around , it also shows that the outfit continues to be crippled , weak and disorganized since Indian security forces broke its backbone a couple of years ago after a spate of bloody attacks across the country . . . There are three clues to the changethe timing of the blast , the nature of the explosive device used and the modus operandi . . . First , according to the Mujahideens email , the LOC_Event blast was an act of retaliation against the demolition of the Babri Masjid ( Mosque ) back in December 6 , 1992 . But the fact that the perpetrators couldnt execute their work on the actual 18th anniversary of Babri Masjids destruction on December 6 points to some definite chinks in the IMs armour . Clearly , the terrorists were n't confident they could pull off a more symbolic attack on the actual day and so decided to wait a little . . . Second , the improvised explosive device ( IED ) used in the attack , which was hidden in a milk container , was a low intensity one and didnt have shrapnel or other projectiles like nails to maximize the kill quotient . The explosion did cause the tragic death of a toddler , but the rest of the nearly 40 injured were able to escape with their lives . Had the IM been at its historic deadliest , the number of fatalities in LOC_Event could well have reached three figures , especially considering that thousands of devotees were present at the Sheetla Ghat ( memorial ) at around 6:30 pm . In contrast , two explosions that rocked Varanasi previously on March 7 , 2006 killed 28 people . . . The single blast on December 7 therefore makes it pretty clear that the IM 's capabilities have been substantially eroded since March 2006 . Cobbling together a crude device and hiding it in a milk container at a crowded religious place is n't rocket science , and does n't require specialists to plan and execute . . . This is the third attack by the IM since February , when more than a dozen people were killed in a German bakery-restaurant in Pune and two Taiwanese tourists were shot at in Old Delhi on September 19 , an act largely aimed at disrupting the Commonwealth Games . . . But this latest incident suggests IM executed a hurried and ill-prepared plot more to show their presence to their alleged Pakistani masters than anything else . Its probably their way of telling their believed handlers in Pakistan that they still have the guts , gall and grit and could do better if they had more funds . Indian security managers must take this cue . . . . HYDERABAD : Not leaving anything to chance in the aftermath of LOC_Event bomb blast , the state intelligence has alerted the police commissionerates in Hyderabad and Cyberabad on possible attacks on Western nationals , especially those hailing from Holland , by terror groups . According to a departmental memo 425/CI/2010 dated December 6 , the intelligence wing has come to know of an exchange of SMSes that speak against the anti-Islam Dutch film ` Fitna ' -LRB- Devilry -RRB- made by right-wing politician Geert Wilders . One of the SMSes , the circular said , was ` Remember Allah may ask you one day what did you do when they made fun of My messenger ? ' Senior police officers , however , denied issuing any circular specifically mentioning Dutch nationals . The circular deals with general alert against the backdrop of Varanasi terrorist attack , they added . Some police officers said the circular related to Dutch nationals emanated from the central intelligence agencies and was not specific to Hyderabad . The circular is the result of Wilder 's recent tour of Israel where he was promoting his short film and demanding a campaign for banning the Muslim holy book ` The Koran . ' Police officers fear that hate-mongering against one group of people could provoke some to take law into their hands . Varanasi : Terror struck this holy town when a low-intensity blast ripped through a crowded bathing ghat on the banks of the Ganges river during evening prayers killing a child and injuring 37 people , including six foreigners . . . Banned terror outfit Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) claimed responsibility for the blast in e-mails sent to media houses and said it ` attributed ' the attack to the demolition of LOC_Event in 1992 . . . Home Secretary G K Pillai said the Government believes that the blast , which also led to a stampede , was a terror strike . Some people were injured in the stampede , police said . . . A 11-month-old girl identified as Swastika Sharma , who was with her mother for the prayers , died at Marwari hospital after the blast , according to IG ( Varanasi ) R P Singh . . . Pillai had earlier said roughly between '20 to 25 persons ' were injured . Later in the night , hospital officials said 37 people were injured , including six foreigners . . . Officials said 20 injured were admitted to BHU Hospital , 13 in Kabir Chaura Hospital and four in Heritage Hospital . . . Among the injured foreigners was an Italian , Alexandeo Mantello , who was now out of danger , police said . According to hospital sources , the others were French national Rachael , Ki Taro from Japan , South Korean Wan Sen Kim , Italian national Lydia de Mayo and German national Ozel . . . The blast occurred at around 6:20 pm when thousands of devotees and some foreign tourists had assembled at the Dashashwamedh ghat for having darshan of the Ganga Arti ritual , police sources said . . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh appealed for calm . Several cities including the national capital were put on high alert . . . Additional Director General Law and Order Brijlal told reporters in Lucknow that the blast took place due to ` some explosive material ' kept on the stairs of the ghat . . . The blast occurred at a spot some two km away from Sankatmochan Temple which was targeted by terrorists in 2006 . . . ` According to the information that we have , it was a low intensity blast which occurred around 6.20 PM , ' Pillai said in New Delhi . But Secretary ( Internal Security ) U K Bansal said the explosion was a ` medium intensity ' blast . Some people suffered injuries due to the blast while some were hurt during the stampede which occurred due to the collapse of a railing . Some of the injured persons were reported to have been hurt by metal pellets . . . Official sources in New Delhi said that an Improvised Explosive Device ( IED ) was recovered from a metal dustbin at the site of the blast . . . Eyewitnesses said a loud noise which also shook some nearby buildings was heard when the explosion occurred . . . ADG ( Law and Order ) Brij Lal told reporters in Lucknow that the explosive was planted in the wall between the Dashashwamedh and Shitla ghats and most of the persons suffered injuries due to stone splinters . . . He said the baby girl fell from the lap of her mother after the blast and succumbed to injuries in hospital . . . Forensic teams were airlifted from Agra and rushed to LOC_Event for detailed investigations , the ADG said . . . On the Indian Mujahideen e-mail , Brij Lal said that it would be probed threadbare . . . He , however , said that there was no specific warning in the e-mail for today as the one that is being referred to was for the anniversary of Babri mosque demolition yesterday . . . LOC_Event , which was rocked by twin blasts on March seven in 2006 in which 20 persons were killed , has been under constant threat from various terror outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba ( LeT ) . . . Senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi , who represents LOC_Event in the Lok Sabha , said there seemed to be a ` motive ' behind the blast since it occurred during prayer time . In Delhi , Union Home Minister P Chidambaram said , ` Government condemns the attempt to disturb the peace and harmony by a misguided group which appears to have planted a low-intensity device in one of the ghats in LOC_Event . ' . . The authenticity of the IM claim is being verified , he said . . . Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Mayawati visited the blast site late in the night . . . She said the Central government should make security forces and equipment available to Uttar Pradesh , especially for LOC_Event , the way it had done after the 26/11 terror strikes in Mumbai . . . She will write a letter to the Prime Minister and Union Home Minister in this regard tomorrow , Mayawati said . . . Earlier in the evening , she had held an emergency meeting of senior government officials in Lucknow and sent a team of officials , besides BSP state unit president Swami Prasad Maurya , to LOC_Event . . . Meanwhile , officials said forensic teams reached the site late in the night and collected samples . VARANASI : The low-intensity bomb used in the blast here did not have shrapnels in it and all the injured were hit by pieces of wall that broke following the explosion , police sources said on Wednesday . They said the bomb kept near the steps leading to the LOC_Event was placed in such a way that the maximum impact was directed to the ground where the ` arti ' was being held on Tuesday evening . Though the nature of explosives is yet to be ascertained , the sources said there were no burn or shrapnel injuries . Meanwhile , of the 37 injured in the blasts , one is said to be in a critical condition . Forensic experts are examining the blast scene to find clues about the exact nature of the explosives used . An improvised explosive device -LRB- IED -RRB- was recovered from a metal dustbin at the site of the blast . Banned terror outfit Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- has claimed responsibility for the blast in e-mails sent to media houses and said it ` attributed ' the attack to the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992 . The blast occurred at 6:20 pm when thousands of devotees and some foreign tourists had assembled at the ghat for the Ganga arti ritual . The blast left a child dead and 37 others injured . New Delhi Islamist militants are being blamed for an explosion that killed at least one person and wounded more than 20 others at one of Hinduisms holiest sites Tuesday evening . . . The blast went off during a Hindu ceremony by the river Ganges in Varanasi , an ancient pilgrimage city in the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh at around 6:45 pm . Police were immediately put on high alert in Indias big cities . . . Several television channels and newspapers said they had received e-mails from an Islamist militant group , the Indian Mujahadeen ( IM ) , claiming it was behind the blast . . . The official investigation is just beginning . But Indian security pundits say the IM is an obvious suspect : The group has carried out a string of bombings in Indian cities , most recently in the southern city of Pune this February . It is linked to the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba militants who were behind the Mumbai attacks of 2008 . . . A police officer told local journalists a bomb appeared to have been hidden in a container on one of the ghats stone staircases that lead down to the Ganges , where people gather to say their prayers and bathe , particularly at sunrise and sunset . . . The bomb is thought to have killed a baby girl and injured at least 20 more , including an unknown number of foreigners . . . Perhaps Indias holiest city , LOC_Event also known by its older name of Benares is always packed with Hindu pilgrims and foreign tourists . . . Some analysts say the IM is focusing on foreigners . The group was suspected of involvement in machine gun attack on tourists in the capital , New Delhi that wounded two foreigners in September , in the run-up to the Commonwealth Games . . . An offshoot of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India , the IM first emerged in 2007 and 2008 . Intelligence officials allege its operatives are being trained in Pakistan . They also say its threat has been reduced in recent months thanks to successful security operations . . . Police have been especially vigilant in Uttar Pradesh in recent months , following a controversial ruling over a religious site that has long divided Indias Hindu majority and Muslim minority . In September , a high court in the state ruled that a site in the town of Ayodhya should be divided between Hindu and Muslims groups , with the majority share going to Hindus . . . In 1992 , Hindu zealots had torn down a 17th century mosque at the site , unleashing India-wide riots that killed 2,000 people , most of them Muslim . . . The issue of the Babri Masjid ( mosque ) has lost some of its power to mobilize mass unrest in recent years . Indias Muslim community , though long marginalized and discriminated against , has been largely peaceful . Despite fears of a backlash after Septembers ruling , the state remained peaceful in the aftermath of the ruling . . . LOC_Event is no stranger to militant attacks . In March 2006 , twin bombings blamed on a Pakistan-based Islamist militant group tore through a LOC_Event and a LOC_Event in the city , killing 20 people . . . . The all too familiar blame game has begun between the Mayawati government in Uttar Pradesh and the Centre , with both blaming each other for the intelligence failure that led to Tuesday 's blast in Varanasi.Union home minister P. Chidambaram , who visited the spot and met blast victims , shifted the responsibility on the state saying it was a failure on the part of the UP government.The state ignored specific warnings which were issued about terrorists planning an attack on Varanasi 's ghats . We had also sent a letter to the UP government on February 25 , 2010 to share intelligence reports hinting at the possibility of terrorist outfits targeting this particular ghat of Varanasi , Chidambaram said.Since the warning had been conveyed to the state government in advance and that too specifically about a possible strike at Dasashwamedh Ghat , we expected them to take appropriate security measures . It was the result of some security lapse on the part of the state administration , he added.Chidambaram also sounded a grim warning that we should not underestimate the nature of the threat.The retaliation from the state was swift . Hitting back at the Centre , state cabinet secretary Shashank Shekhar Singh said , We had not got any such specific information . The home minister is misleading . The Centre had given routine and general information during Dushehra . But there was no specific information about the ghats.In fact it is the responsibility of the Centre to tackle terrorist activities . The states neither have expertise nor enough force to handle such situations , he added.However , earlier in the day , chief minister Mayawati chose to stay away from the blame game allowing her bureaucrats to do the needful.It 's time to fight terrorism jointly . There should n't be any politics on this issue , the chief minister said , but could n't resist adding the Centre does n't give us sufficient force.The investigating agencies , meanwhile , are groping in the dark after the powerful blast at LOC_Event , adjacent to Dasashwamedh Ghat , left one girl dead and over three dozen seriously wounded . Some agencies had wrongly reported about the death of an Italian tourist , who is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Varanasi.The Anti-Terrorist Squad ( ATS ) of the UP Police and central intelligence agencies , including the Intelligence Bureau have cordoned off the area.But they have neither found any trace of a timer or any device or even an electric wire which could have been used to trigger the blast.They confirmed unofficially that it was an improvised explosive device ( IED ) made of ammonium nitrate mixed in burnt charcoal which had massive upward impact and left a one-feet deep crater at the blast site.People heard the sound of the blast three km away . The intensity was such that the stone slabs were thrown up 10m in the air and those standing in a radius of 12 metres were sent flying . So far we have only collected broken pieces of a milk canister , a central intelligence official said rejecting additional DGP Brijlal 's assertion that it was a low-intensity blast.He also confirmed that two IEDs were recovered . Such a ` The Centre does n't give us sufficient forces ' trend has been seen in every terrorist attack committed by those who call their organisation the Indian Mujahideen . In fact failure of some bombs is seen as signature stamp of the IM , the official said.Trying to save his skin , Rajendra Pal Singh , Inspector General of Police denied that any more bomb was recovered and said the bomb disposal squad had done the sanitisation work at Dasashwamedh Ghat and LOC_Event at 5pm on Tuesday.This suggests that the bomb was planted in the cavity of the stair after 5pm . The rest is part of investigation for which we all are waiting , he added.POINT COUNTERPOINTUNION HOME MINISTER P. CHIDAMBARAMON HOLDING THE STATE RESPONSIBLEWe had cautioned all state governments that in the run up to 26/11 and 6/12 anniversaries , we can expect threats from terrorists . In fact , as far as UP is concerned , a specific advice was given on February 25 , 2010 that the Dashashwamedh Ghat was one of the targets . So this area had been identified as a possible target in February 2010 . I am not here to do a ` jugalbandi ' to blame anyone but specific advisories were given ... It is for the government of UP to realise that it is first the responsibility of the state government to maintain law and order . Police and public order are state subjects.ON POLICE LAXITYI think the police made some arrangements ... There may have been some kind of laxity . I have always said there is no scope for relaxing the vigil . Unfortunately , despite the presence of the platoon , somebody was able to plant an IED in the LOC_Event . I think there is a lesson for the police.UP CABINET SECRETARY SHASHANK SHEKHAR SINGHON CENTRE HOLDING THE STATE RESPONSIBLEHolding state responsible is not justified . There was no specific actionable intelligence input regarding a terrorist act in Varanasi . An alert was received on February 25 this year , but that was up to Dusshera festival ( in October ) only . Expecting that input to be specific and actionable even after Dusshera festival is not justified ... Stating that the state was alerted in advance is far from reality.DENYING POLICE LAXITYAs a routine exercise , ghats where Ganga ` arti ' is held is sanitised at 5 pm every day and this exercise was carried out yesterday as well . Thus , there was no laxity yesterday.The chief minister is of the clear view that terrorism is a national problem and stringent action should be taken to tackle this . She is of the view that until and unless borders are secure it will not be possible to check acts of terrorism . . VARANASI : One more victim identified as Phoolwati -LRB- 50 -RRB- , seriously injured in the December 7 blast at Dashashwamedh Ghat and was admitted to the ICU of Sir Sunder Lal -LRB- SSL -RRB- Hospital , Banaras Hindu University , succumbed to her injuries on Saturday . With this , the death toll in Tuesday 's blast has gone up to two . Phoolwati , from Damoh district of Madhya Pradesh , had gone to the Ghat to attend the Ganga Aarti . She suffered serious head injuries in the blast and was rushed to the SSL Hospital . According to SSL chief medical officer Dr Kundan Kumar , she could not regain consciousness even after surgery and her condition deteriorated . ` She died on Saturday morning and her body was sent for postmortem , ' he said . The blast had also claimed the life of one-year-old Swastika Sharma . At least 37 people , including four foreigners , were injured . Talking to reporters , Phoolwati 's son Somnath Tiwari said his mother wanted to watch the Ganga Aarti on LOC_Event and had come to the city for the purpose . ` Hopefully , the ghats of the city would now witness strict security arrangements to check recurrence of such incidents , ' he said . Police said the blast in LOC_Event appeared to be a terrorist attack , but they would not say whom they suspected . . . The bomb was stashed in a milk container on the LOC_Event , one of many stone staircases leading to the Ganges river , the site of daily spiritual rituals , according to Brij Lal , a police official . . . The explosion set off a stampede , and 19 people , including four foreigners , were wounded , Lal said . It was not immediately clear how many were hurt in the blast and how many in the subsequent chaos . . . A 2-year-old who had been sitting on her mothers lap when the bomb went off died in a hospital , Lal said . Her mother and two others , including one of the foreigners , were in serious condition . . . The force of the explosion ripped away a metal railing and damaged stones up to 200 feet away , said a witness , Ramatama Srivastava . . . Srivastava who spoke by telephone from LOC_Event , which is about 180 miles southeast of the Uttar Pradesh state capital of Lucknow said he noticed the foreigners were watching the Hindu prayer ceremony and taking photographs . . . The ceremony is a daily ritual in LOC_Event , the holiest city in the Hindu religion , during which priests and others light oil lamps , ring bells , and chant prayers . . . The Press Trust of India reported a Muslim terror group allegedly claimed responsibility for the blast in an e-mail to several media outlets . . . . A day after the blast in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event killed a toddler and injured 37 others , the Mumbai Police said on Wednesday that Bhatkal brothers Riyaz and Iqbal the chiefs of the Indian Mujahideen had masterminded the explosion . . . The Bhatkal brothers are in Pakistan . . . Preliminary investigations have shown the actual muscle to carry on the blasts was provided by Dr Shahnawaz , the brother of IM foot soldier Mohammed Saif who was arrested in the Batla House encounter in September 19 , 2008 . . . In that encounter , a week after the Delhi blasts , the then IM commander Atiq Amin was killed and Saif arrested . . . Dr Shahnawaz , who is both in Dubai and Pakistan now , took charge thereafter . A Pakistan-trained mujahideen , Shahnawz is in regular touch with the Bhatkal brothers , sources said . . . He is also involved in the Delhi , Ahmedabad and Jaipur blasts . . . It was widely expected that the IM terror modules that operated out of Azamgarh had been wiped out after the Batla encounter . But that is not so . . . Preliminary investigations point at IM members based in the Sanjarpur-Saraimeer-Phulpur area of the Azamgarh district , just 100 kilometres from LOC_Event . . . Dr Shahnawaz along with aides Khalid , Abu Rashid and Bada Sajid or Mohammed Sajid had fled to Nepal after the Batla House encounter . This former physician in Lucknow Hospital is purportedly now in both Dubai and Pakistan . All four now hold Nepalese passports . . Meanwhile , the email in which the banned terrorist group , Indian Mujahideen , claimed responsibility for the bomb blast in LOC_Event originated from the suburb Vashi in Navi Mumbai . . . The email which was shot to several media houses minutes after the blast was sent through an unsecured WiFi connection of the Airtel broadband , official sources have said . . . The Indian Mujahideen module had hacked into a broadband Internet connection of a Navi Mumbai resident . . . ... contd . New Delhi : Security vigil across the country , particularly in Metro cities , was stepped up after three explosions rocked LOC_Event on Wednesday evening , official sources here said.According to Home Ministry officials , all state governments have been asked to heighten security measures . `` All the state governments have been asked to increase police patrolling and keep forces on high alert , '' a Home Ministry official said.The national capital was placed on high alert and vigil was stepped up at all vulnerable areas . Security has been heightened in Chandni Chowk , Connaught Place , Greater Kailash , Karol Bagh , Mehrauli and Sarojini Nagar.Police in Hyderabad , Tirupati , Visakhapatnam and other major towns in Andhra Pradesh were also put on high alert . Police tightened security at railway and bus stations , markets , historical , religious and public places and started checking vehicles at various points in the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad . -LRB- Read : Hyderabad , Tirupati on high alert -RRB- Kolkata Police Commissioner Ranjit Pachnanda , who went round parts of the city to monitor the security preparedness Wednesday night , said `` we are on high alert . Security has been intensified around multiplexes , malls , hotels , restaurants , shops and bus stands '' . Wednesday evening saw strong police presence in various other cities in the country . -LRB- Read : Security stepped up in Chennai -RRB- The increased security measures come as 21 people were killed and over 140 were injured in three explosions that rocked Mumbai on Wednesday evening.One blast took place in LOC_Event in Central Mumbai and the other two in LOC_Event Bazar and the LOC_Event in South Mumbai.All three are busy commercial and residential areas . . . . Three blasts rocked LOC_Event 's crowded LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event areas on Wednesday evening , killing 10 and injuringat least 100people . . . . . LOC_Event Police sources say the Indian Mujahideen is suspected to be behind the attack . In Delhi , Home Ministry sources too say that the hand of the IM working closely with the Lashkar-e-Tayiba is suspected.The first explosion took place at south LOC_Event 's LOC_Event , near the famous LOC_Event , in which scores were injured , said LOC_Event Police spokesperson Nisar Tamboli . . . . . The injured in this blast have been rushed to G T Hospital in LOC_Event area . . . . . The bustling market also has a number of jewellery shops . . . . . Akshay Doshi , a commuter , told rediff.com , ' I was at the traffic signal opposite LOC_Event . The blast was like nothing I have heard before . I saw many injured being carried away . ' . . . . Senior police officers including Police Commissioner Arup Patnaik , Additional Commissioner Naval Bajaj and Joint Commissioner Rajneesh Seth were present at the blast site . . . . . Also present were members of the Mumbai Anti-Terrorist Squad and a forensic team . . . . . . . The second explosion was reported in a car in central LOC_Event 's LOC_Event area . . . . . The vehicle parked near the LOC_Event bus stop was a private vehicle . The blast at LOC_Event , according to ACP Madhukar Sankhe , has taken place inside the meter box on the bus stop and the car was parked near it . The number of the grey car is MH-43 A 9384 . The entire bus stop has been reportedly blown up . . . . . ` We are verifying the nature of explosions . At this moment I can not say anything more than this , ' Tamboli said . . . . . A third blast was reported from LOC_Event in LOC_Event . The blast occurred outside a building named City Chamber . Ten people have died in the blast , claim reports . . . . . The critically injured have been taken to Harkishan Das Hospital at LOC_Event . . . . . Jayesh Labdi , a local diamond merchant , who claimed to have taken several inured to the hospital , said the blast occurred at peak hour . ` Most of the injured were hawkers , ' he said . . . . . The blast in LOC_Event has left jewellers in the area petrified . . . . . The limbs and legs of victims still are still scattered at blast site . This being an area where diamond traders do business , so there is a possibility of diamonds being scattered in the blast . Police have cordoned off the entire area.Ankit Jhaveri told rediff.com , ` At around 7.05 pm we were shaken up to hear the blasts . I have never heard such sound before . ' . . . . Vikram Balerao , a resident of LOC_Event , which is situated barely 30 metres from the blast site at LOC_Event was one of the few volunteers who took the injured to the nearest Saifee hospital . He said he saw many people without limbs and legs . . . . . Since there were no stretchers available immediately , they used tarpaulin sheets to ferry the injured to the hospital . Teams of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad and the National Investigative Agency have rushed to the spot . . . . . . . . MUMBAI : Chaos reigned in Opera House , the hub of LOC_Event 's diamond trade , as mediapersons and onlookers jostled to catch a view of the destruction wreaked by an improvised explosive device , which ripped through a crowded lane just outside Prasad Chambers and Panchratna Building , workplaces of 5,000-6 ,000 diamond merchants , brokers , cutters and polishers of precious stones . . . The police cordoned off the area which is packed with small eateries with a bomb squad collecting forensic evidence for clues into the type of explosive used . Most offices in the area were shut when the blast took place , five minutes before seven in the evening , as diamond traders normally leave for home at sundown . . . However , some who congregated to grab a bite at the roadside stalls were seriously injured by the blast impact , which brought down a heavy name board of a Jumbo Vada Pav stall that had earlier served as a police chowki . `` Information at first sight suggests 25-30 people have been seriously injured by the blast at LOC_Event , '' said Arup Patnaik , LOC_Event 's police commissioner , who was at the site shortly after the blast . . . `` Preliminary investigation indicates this could be the handiwork of a terrorist outfit though our investigation will ascertain who was responsible . Our effort will be to bring the guilty to book . A team from the National Security Guard is on its way and we have sounded a red alert across LOC_Event . '' . . However , the commissioner 's presence seemed to have done little to soothe the frayed nerves of those who witnessed the blast . `` Despite repeated warnings by a few traders , the business community chose to ignore the possibility of a bomb blast here , '' said Hardik Hundia , a diamond expert who heard the explosion from his office near Pancharatna . . . Asked whether the blast would compel diamond merchants to shift to the recentlyopened Bharat Diamond Bourse in the Bandra-Kurla Complex , Hundia said : `` There are around 5,000-6 ,000 traders here and only half a dozen have moved from here so far ... more than shifting out , the police should prevent illegal parking by twowheelers and diamond traders should push for setting up of a chowki here . '' . . Sanjay Kothari , vice-chairman of Gems & Jewellery Export Promotion Council , said though the blasts had created a psychosis of fear among businessmen , `` it would be business as usual tomorrow . We ca n't stop working ... if we do , we 'll be playing into the hands of terrorists responsible for this blast . '' . Mumbai : A man , who sustained serious injuries in the July 13 triple blasts here , today died in a city hospital , taking the death toll in the bombings to 19 . Babulal Das , 42 , who was admitted to Saifee Hospital after the blast at LOC_Event , died around 3 am , they said.Yesterday , Avinash Tamka -LRB- 23 -RRB- , who was admitted to the ICU in Bombay Hospital following the blast in LOC_Event , had died.Twenty people , who were seriously injured in the bombings , are being treated at various hospitals in the city.The triple blasts at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event had left more than 130 people injured . . Mumbai : Three bomb blasts within twelve minutes during Mumbai 's rush hour have left at least 18 people dead and over 130 injured . Home Minister P Chidambaram , who reached Mumbai late at night , described the blast as `` a coordinated terror attack '' . Mr Chidambaram inspected all the three blast sites . -LRB- Read : Chidambaram on Mumbai blasts -RRB- Mumbai has been sealed and is on high-alert ; so are Delhi , Chennai , Kolkata and Bangalore . -LRB- Read : High alert in cities across India -RRB- The first blast took place at 6.56 pm in LOC_Event in South Mumbai , a crowded market named for the many small jewelry stores that fill its narrow streets . A minute later , there was an explosion at LOC_Event , also in South Mumbai ; the final strike was at 7.06 pm near LOC_Event at LOC_Event in Central Mumbai . The Home Minister said Improvised Explosive Devices -LRB- IED -RRB- were used in all three blasts . -LRB- Watch : YouTube videos on Mumbai blasts -RRB- Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan who described the blasts as `` an attack on the heart of India '' said the blast at LOC_Event was the most powerful . -LRB- Watch : This is an attack on the heart of India , says Maharashtra CM -RRB- This is Mumbai 's first terror attack after 26/11 in 2008 - when 166 people were killed in 72 hours by ten young men who sailed into the city from Karachi and attacked some of Mumbai 's most famous landmarks . The city wore a steely clam this evening . The Mumbai Police sent an SMS to all cellphone users in the city minutes after the blast , asking them to stay indoors . In 2008 , the police had been criticised for failing to share basic information with the city . -LRB- Read : Police 's SMS after Mumbai blasts -RRB- The Home Minister said that the National Security Guard -LRB- NSG -RRB- , which has a hub in Mumbai , was on standby . The National Investigation Agency or NIA has reached the site of the blasts and is working with the Mumbai Police to collect and analyse forensic evidence . A seven-member team from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory -LRB- CFSL -RRB- from Delhi is also in Mumbai . Sources have told NDTV that preliminary inspections by the forensic teams and bomb disposal squads have hinted at the use of ammonium nitrate in the IEDs . Traces of ammonium nitrate have been found at the blast sites , sources added.Heavy rain was pouring down over South Mumbai on Wednesday evening triggering fears that crucial evidence may be washed away . -LRB- Read : Concerns about evidence as rain lashes South Mumbai -RRB- Police sources say close circuit TV -LRB- CCTV -RRB- footage from security cameras opposite the bus stop at LOC_Event and at LOC_Event could provide them with leads in the post-blast investigations . The blasts were designed to disrupt the city when it is at its busiest . The LOC_Event blast took place in an umbrella kept at the crowded LOC_Event , a street of eateries where many commuters stop to snack before catching their local trains home . The LOC_Event explosion took place in a meter box on an electric pole near a bus stop . The LOC_Event blast took place at LOC_Event . `` I heard a loud explosion . And then I saw people with serious injuries lying in pools of blood , '' said an eyewitness to the LOC_Event explosion.Datatray Jadhav from LOC_Event said , `` A girl and another man were seriously injured . We put them both in a police van and sent them to the hospital . '' -LRB- Watch : Eyewitness accounts of the blast in LOC_Event -RRB- LOC_Event has been hit before - over 50 people were killed in twin blasts in 2002 . The injured are being treated at KEM -LRB- 022-24136051 -RRB- , Nair -LRB- 022-23085379 -RRB- , Harkishandas -LRB- 022-23855555 / 30095555 -RRB- , Saifee -LRB- 022-67570111 -RRB- . . MUMBAI : Prime minister Manmohan Singh and Congress party leader Sonia Gandhi on Thursday arrived at Saifee hospital at 8.30 pm , along with chief minister Prithviraj Chavan , and went straight to the 6th floor , where victims of Wednesday 's serial blasts have been admitted , of which seven are in the ICU . Doctors appraised them of their condition and the entourage then went to the 5th floor , to meet other victims . They were at the hospital for 25 minutes . Eighteen victims are at Saifee , including a boy with an amputated leg . They later visited JJ Hospital too . Singh praised the state administration , saying it had risen remarkably well after the blasts . ` There has been a remarkable coordination of efforts . Now , the task is to find out who the culprits are and bring them to justice , ' Singh said , adding he had come to Mumbai to share the deep sorrow of the people . Earlier , Union home minister P Chidambaram stated that all cities were vulnerable to attacks and admitted that neither the Centre nor the state government had intelligence inputs about the serial blasts . However , he made it clear that having no prior inputs did not necessarily mean intelligence failure . The minister , who was addressing the media at the state government 's guest house , was accompanied by Chavan , deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar , home minister R R Patil and key state officials . After visiting the blast sites , Chidambaram pointed out that ammonium nitrate was used in all three blasts . He stated that the blasts were well coordinated . ` Indians are living in troubled neighborhoods , as Pakistan and Afghanistan have become epicentres of terrorism . All cities are vulnerable , ' he added . Chidambaram observed that the blast near the Kabutarkhana at Dadar was low intensity , while those at Opera House and Zaveri Bazar were of medium to high intensity . ` Zaveri Bazar and Opera House have narrow bylanes with a high density of population . Even a low intensity blast would have a great impact ... this could be why the neighborhoods were chosen for the attack , ' he said . He also appreciated the resilience shown by all Mumbaikars . Bharatiya Janata Party -LRB- BJP -RRB- leader L K Advani said that Pakistan was waging a proxy war against India through terror attacks , and added that there was no point in continuing dialogue with the neighbour until it dismantled terror camps on its soil . Advani , who arrived in Mumbai on Thursday morning , visited the blast sites as well as victims in various hospitals . The city , he said , had become a favourite target for terrorists , adding that the attacks were not an intelligence failure but the failure of government policy . Meanwhile , Rahul Gandhi 's remark that it was impossible to stop terrorist activities in the country has raised the hackles of the opposition Shiv Sena-BJP combine and the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena -LRB- MNS -RRB- . Chidambaram too earned the opposition 's ire for his statement that the blasts do not indicate intelligence failure . ` Gandhi 's statement smacks of gross insensitivity , ' Sena CEO Uddhav Thackeray said . He was talking informally to mediapersons after visiting KEM hospital , where he met victims . Sena chief Bal Thackeray condemned the Centre and the Maharashtra government for the ` dastardly ' attack on Mumbai , and urged Mumbaikars to arm themselves for protection in view of the apathy and indifference of those in power . MNS chief Raj Thackeray came down heavily on Gandhi for his ` foolish remark ' . ` Gandhi should remember that his father and grandmother died in terror attacks . Gandhi should have displayed sensitivity to those who died in the Mumbai blasts , ' said Raj . NEW DELHI : Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday announced ex-gratia assistance of Rs two lakh each for the kin of the deceased in Wednesday 's terror attack and decided to visit LOC_Event to personally take stock of the situation there . He also announced Rs one lakh each for the seriously injured , a PMO spokesman said . Singh will be travelling to LOC_Event at 5.30 PM to personally take stock of the situation , sources said . He is expected to visit the blast sites and hospitals to meet the injured . In view of his visit , a meeting of the Council of Ministers convened this evening has been put off , the sources said . The Prime Minister on Wednesday night strongly condemned the serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event and appealed to the people of the megapolis to remain calm and show a united front . ' I strongly condemn the bomb blasts in LOC_Event this evening ... I appeal to the people of Mumbai to remain calm and show a united face , ' Singh had said in a statement . The Prime Minister , who was monitoring the developments related to the explosions , had spoken to home minister P Chidambaram and also Maharashtra chief minister Prithviraj Chavan . Singh had said he had asked Chavan to do whatever is possible to provide relief to the injured and to the families of the deceased . ' I have also asked Union home minister P Chidambaram to provide all possible expert assistance to the state government , ' according to the statement . Meanwhile , the Maharashtra government also announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the families of those killed and Rs 50,000 to those injured in the triple bomb blasts that rocked LOC_Event on Wednesday . NEW DELHI : The security establishment was scrambling on Wednesday for any specific inputs that would give indications of who may have been behind the serial blasts that interrupted the past few months of lull from terror . Sources were veering around to the opinion that the likelihood of underworld involvement was very high because of a host of factors . One official pointed out that the underworld has been `` hyperactive '' in recent weeks in LOC_Event . There have been a number of reports about various developments in the underworld such as the killing of journalist J Dey and attacks on Dawood Ibrahim 's brother 's driver . Among the recent inputs is also the possibility of a patch-up between some factions . Another analyst speculated that the simultaneous blasts required a fairly good network in Mumbai as well as strong local support . He said it was likely that the blasts were executed by the underworld , financed by someone else . The attacks came just three days after the Centre issued a warning to LOC_Event , Hyderabad , Bangalore and Kolkata about the possibility of a Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami ( HuJI ) conspiracy to target these cities . However , sources are not willing to give much credence to this particular warning , which was based on inputs from BSF . BSF may have got its inputs from Bangladeshi sources . The security establishment was scrambling for any specific inputs that would give indications of who may have been behind the serial blasts . A third angle that is being closely looked at is the possibility of the involvement of Kashmiri terrorist groups . The blasts came on July 13 , which is observed as Kashmir Martyrs Day to commemorate the killing of 22 Kashmiris by the Dogra forces in 1931 . In the present phase of militancy that started in the late 1980s , Martyrs Day has been appropriated significantly by the separatists and terrorist groups . One top official said the degraded capabilities of Kashmiri militant groups in recent times defy the logic of them carrying out multiple blasts in LOC_Event . However , the official said possibility of Lashkar-e-Toiba ( LeT ) , which remains a very powerful terror group , carrying out the attack to coincide with July 13 can not be ruled out . Sources said they are seriously examining the possibility of Pakistan backed groups , especially the LeT , carrying out the attack to divert attention away from the domestic woes of Pakistan , and to warn that the Kashmir issue was far from over . If that were the case , then the Indian Mujahideen , or other LeT affiliates in Mumbai , may have been used for carrying out the attack , they said . . . . LOC_Event : Three explosions have taken place in LOC_Event on Wednesday evening - two in South Mumbai at LOC_Event and in LOC_Event and one at LOC_Event , in central Mumbai . The Home Ministry has confirmed a terrorist attack and Mumbai is on high alert.All blasts took place during rush hour and in crowded places . Eyewitnesses said about 15 to 20 people have taken to hospital in LOC_Event . Reports said six people had died in the LOC_Event blast , four in the LOC_Event blast . Government sources put the number of injured at 60 . One explosion , in a car at a bus stop in LOC_Event , has been confirmed . A police officer said there might have been an explosive in a meter box behind a hoarding at Khau gali , a street filled with eateries at LOC_Event . The LOC_Event blast took place at Prasad Chamber.An unexploded bomb has also reportedly been found in LOC_Event and a bomb disposal squad is working to defuse it.Early reports said a police control room had received a call claiming that there were serial blasts in Mumbai . A National Investigation Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- team has rushed to Mumbai from Delhi to investigate and collect forensic evidence . The police have appealed for calm.Zaveri Bazaar has been hit before - over 50 people were killed in twin blasts in 2002 . Malls , markets and other crowded places in Delhi , Chennai and Bangalore are on high alert . -LRB- Read : Delhi , Chennai , Bangalore on high alert -RRB- . LOC_Event : Investigators on Saturday claimed they have obtained ` good leads ' in the triple explosions , ruled out involvement of a suicide bomber and said a suspect 's sketch may be prepared soon . Maharashtra ATS chief Rakesh Maria said investigations were moving in a ` certain direction ' but refused to elaborate . As investigators struggled for a breakthrough three days after the terror attack , police teams also fanned out to seven states widening the probe to get definite leads in a desperate hunt for the bombers . He said sketch of a probable suspect would be prepared soon based on certain eyewitness accounts and CCTV footage at a blast site . Maria also made it clear tht till the case is ` cracked ' and people involved are in the custody of the police they would not like to speculate which group was involved . He claimed the identification of persons seen in the CCTV footages was on and stated that photograph of an individual seen in the footage needed more verification . ` At this stage , I can say we have good leads and I am not in a position to reveal what the clues are . I can very confidently say , the investigations are probably moving in a certain direction , ' Maria said . ` After visiting the blast sites , we can now rule out the possibility of suicide bomber , ' the ATS chief added . Based on an eyewitness account , a sketch of a probable suspect may be ready by tonight and circulated among the investigators , Maria said . ` Experts have retrieved certain portions of metallic container which was used to store and carry the explosives , ' he added . Forensic experts had opined that ammonium nitrate mixed with fuel oil was used in the explosives while digital timers were used to carry out the blasts . He also said ammonium nitrate , crude oil and digital timers were used to trigger the explosions at the sites of three serial blasts . The death toll in the Wednesday attack rose to 19 after one of the victims of the blasts succumbed to his injuries in a city hospital . Teams of Maharashtra ATS and crime branch had gone to various places in Uttar Pradesh , Gujarat , Delhi , West Bengal , Andhra Pradesh , Karnataka and Rajasthan Maria said , adding they were also taking the help of police of respective states and the central agencies . The ATS has questioned the owner of a scooter , which was found very close to the blast site in Zaveri Bazar here , to put together the sequence of events on July 13 . The maroon colour Honda Activa bearing number MH-01-AS 718 was one of the scooters which was very close to the blast site and was partially destroyed . The vehicle belongs to one Ashok Jain who lives in Nagpada area . ` Through the CCTV footage , we do have a photograph at one of the locations that needs more verification and investigations . Our teams are on the job to identify who that individual is , ' Maria said . The additional DG said Maharashtra ATS and the Crime branch teams questioned some previously arrested accused in MP in connection with the blasts . ` Our teams are fanned out at various places and -LRB- have -RRB- questioned a number of people having links with various modules arrested in the past in a bid to get leads in the case , ' Maria said while responding to another question . Nobody had been detained so far , he said . Asserting that the underworld angle , if any , will be examined , Maria said , 'Till the time we arrest the accused , it is inappropriate to say which group or outfit was involved in the blasts . ' When asked if any phone calls were received before the blasts and whether IB intercepted any calls after or before the explosions , the IPS officer said , ` There are calls received post blasts at various control rooms in the city and other controls rooms in and outside the state that had been verified except one call which needs to be verified . ' Elaborating on phone calls received in Buldana and Aurangabad , Maria said , ` There were calls after two blasts -LRB- informing -RRB- that third blast would take place veracity of which is being ascertained . ' The ATS has also sought assistance from Kolkata Police asking them to verify if any suspects had travelled to Mumbai from that city after the blasts . He said some of the CCTV footages were ` grainy ' and in a day or two , investigators will be able to get better images from the CCTV cameras recovered from the blast sites , he said . ' A police team from Karnataka has come to Mumbai to help us . An ATS team from Maharashtra will also go to Karnataka and Ahmedabad to question the IM members lodged in the jails there , ' said a police official . LOC_Event : Three days after triple blasts ripped through LOC_Event during the evening rush hour , security agencies are still groping for clues with nothing significant emerging from the investigations so far.The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- today ruled out the involvement of a suicide bomber in the serial explosions that killed 19 people and injured 131 . -LRB- In Pics : Terror revisits LOC_Event -RRB- It further added that a probable suspect 's sketch was being prepared based on eyewitness accounts . `` Investigations done so far and visit to the sites by forensic experts and investigators suggest that there was no suicide bomber , '' said ATS chief Rakesh Maria in a joint press conference alongwith the Mumbai Police . -LRB- Watch : Blast suspect 's sketch soon , say cops -RRB- The announcement puts to rest speculation over the involvement of a suicide bomber after a corpse , found from one of the blast sites , had an embedded electrical circuit . The body was found by doctors at JJ Hospital where victims of the blasts were being rushed in.At the core of the ongoing investigations now is the CCTV footage from the blast sites - 11 CDs to be precise - that the security agencies are heavily relying upon to zero in on the people who could have planted the bombs . -LRB- Read : Cops scouring 46 CCTV cameras for clues -RRB- Admitting that the footage was `` voluminous '' and `` grainy '' , Mr Maria said that investigators were seeking technical help to get better images.The videos recovered from the CCTV cameras are currently being matched with those installed at various entry and exit points at the city.But despite the investigations , there is no clear word yet on who was responsible for the blasts . The police refused to speculate on the involvement of any terror group , adding that members of various modules arrested in the past were being questioned . Sources , though , have told NDTV that the Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- , a proxy for the Lashkar-e-Taiba -LRB- LeT -RRB- , is slowly emerging as the top suspect . -LRB- Read : Focus on key Indian Mujahideen operatives , say sources -RRB- According to sources , splinter groups of the IM , which suffered a huge blow after the arrest of 21 of its key operatives in 2008 , may have regrouped and could have executed the attacks on Wednesday.The Maharshtra ATS is collecting information from the Gujarat Police on the recent arrest of IM operative Danish Khan who is suspected to have regrouped this new module . Teams of the Gujarat Crime Branch and Uttar Pradesh 's Special Task Force -LRB- STF -RRB- are in LOC_Event in connection with the probe.The UP STF is gathering leads on members of the IM 's Azamgarh module who escaped recently . The Maharashtra ATS has also sought assistance from the Kolkata Police asking them to verify if any IM suspects had travelled to LOC_Event from Kolkata and subsequently went underground after the blasts.Also under the scanner are IM 's Karnataka-based operatives Riaz and Iqbal Bhatkal , who fled to Pakistan after masterminding a series of blasts between 2005 and 2007 in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . Home Minister P Chidambaram on Thursday said there are indications of involvement of Indian module in the July 13 LOC_Event blasts that killed 26 people . . . It is for the first time that the government has pointed towards the involvement of a homegrown terror group for the three explosions in the metropolis . . . The Home Minister also said all over the world right-wing fascist forces were on the rise and India is no exception to it . . . `` While no conclusion has been reached , all indications point to Indian module , '' Chidambaram said about the LOC_Event blasts , adding that perhaps it could be the same module that carried out a blast in the German Bakery in Pune last year . . . He said that while there was a finger-pointing for every terror incident towards the neighbouring country , a clear reference to Pakistan , there is also an existence of home grown terror modules as right wing fascist forces . . . `` We can not live in denial . We can not close our eyes to facts . There are home grown modules . Indian modules . They do not belong to one religion , '' Chidambaram said . . . The LOC_Event and Mumbai blasts are `` two major blots on my career , I accept it , '' he said . . . Chidambaram said another mistake was to point fingers at a particular religion whenever a bomb blast took place . MUMBAI : Six months after Mumbai was rocked by three coordinated blasts leaving 27 people dead , Maharashtra ATS on Monday claimed to have made a breakthrough with the arrest of two alleged Indian Mujahideen operatives but the mastermind and planters of the bombs are still at large . Naqi Ahmed Wasi Ahmed Sheikh and Nadeem Akhtar Ashfaq Sheikh , originally from Bihar 's LOC_Event district , were arrested even as a manhunt continues for top IM leader Yasin Bhatkal . `` Naqi Ahmed Wasi Ahmed Sheikh ( 22 ) and Nadeem Akhtar Ashfaq Sheikh ( 23 ) , who are already in police custody in connection with a forgery case , have been arrested today in the blasts case , '' ATS chief Rakesh Maria told reporters . Naqi and Nadeem , residents of Madanpura and Antop Hill areas in the city , were earlier arrested in connection with a case relating to procurement of SIM cards using fake documents . Six others including one Haroon Rashid Naik from Mumbra near Mumbai , whose remand has been sought , had also been held in connection with fraudulent procurement of SIM cards over a period of time since August 2011 , Maria said . `` After Haroon 's remand in granted , he will be arrested in the blasts case , '' Maria said , adding help extended by the underworld in commission of the crime had also emerged . He said around Rs 10 lakh received through Hawala channels was used in the crime but did not disclose the source from where the money came lest it would hamper investigations . Maintaining that Naqi was indoctrinated by Bhatkal , Maria said it was he who helped the IM mastermind to rent the third floor apartment in Habib Building at LOC_Event last year . Two-three apartments were rejected before finalising the Habib building quarters and Naqi paid for it , he said . Maria rubbished claims by Naqi 's relatives that he was innocent , saying he had been in touch with Bhatkal since 2008 and even visited his place in Bihar and that he was fully aware of the latter 's antecedents . `` We have evidence to corroborate this , '' Maria said . . . . The investigation into the 13/7 triple bombings has revealed that the two Pakistani bombers staying in Byculla 's Habib Apartments used as many as 18 SIM cards and six handsets . The revelation has sent alarm bells ringing in the force . Cops are particularly worried since a survey conducted by them last year had found that four out of 10 SIM cards in use in Mumbai were procured with forged documents , which can be gained for a paltry Rs 5 . Police sources from the Kalachowkie unit of the Anti-Terrorism Squad -LRB- ATS -RRB- told TOI that two suspected 13/7 bomberswho have been identified in court documents as ` A ' and ` B ' , but are believed to be Pakistanis named Waqqas and Tabrezwere provided 18 SIM cards by co-accused Naqi Ahmed . Naqi was first arrested by the ATS in January this year for possessing SIM cards obtained with fake documents . It was during his interrogation in this case that Naqi admitted his role in the July 13 blasts and explained the conspiracy . He also admitted working with Indian Mujahideen 's founder member Yasin Bhatkal to arrange accommodation for the bombers at Habib Apartments . ` We suspected that the bombers changed SIM cards to avoid telephonic surveillance during their stay in Mumbai . We are still collecting the call records of these SIM cards , ' a police officer said on condition of anonymity . The officer explained that a relative of Naqi ran a shop in Madanpura where he sold SIM cards . The cards for the Pakistani bombers were acquired from there after furnishing fake documents . The cards were however never used to make calls to Pakistan . Nor were any calls received on them from Pakistan . ` We are trying to find out if any other SIM was used to speak to family members or handlers in Pakistan , ' the officer said . The bombers also changed six mobile handsets to avoid leaving behind a trail of evidence . The money for the handsets was provided to Naqi by his handlers in Bihar , said a source . The revelation is a security fear come true for the police . Last year , they had found in a survey that about 40 % of the SIM cards in use in Mumbai were procured with forged documents . A subsequent investigation showed that a set of fake documentsincluding a colour photograph , a ration card and a photo identity cardrequired for obtaining a SIM card can be bought in several areas of Mumbai for as little as Rs 5 . For the survey , the police examined documents submitted for 26,450 randomly chosen SIM cards . Out of these , more than 10,000 were found to be forged . Shaken by the findings , the ATS has written to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India -LRB- TRAI -RRB- , asking for stricter implementation of norms related to verification of documents submitted for getting SIM cards . ` While investigating serious offences , including terror attacks , we found that the accused had used SIM cards issued on bogus documents , ' said a senior ATS officer . ` We have requested TRAI to ensure stricter implementation of norms since this is a matter of national security . ' After the 13/7 blasts , the Bhiwandi police had arrested a man and seized more than 1 lakh SIM cards , all of which had been issued using fake identity documents . The police later said the accused had been selling cards to telephone booth owners , who earned lakhs using these cards . There was , however , no record of the users . Nearly a year after triple bomb blasts shook the city killing 27 people and wounding many others , Maharashtra ATS today filed 4700-page charge sheet in a special court against 10 members of Indian Mujahideen , including its top operative Riyaz Bhatkal , believed to be hiding in Pakistan . . . Of the 10 members of the home terror group , six are absconding while four have been arrested . Those facing trial are Naquee Ahmed , Nadeem Shaikh , Kanwar Pathrija and Haroon Naik . . . The new face of Riyaz Bhatkal , a top operative of Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) . Inset : Riyaz Bhatkal 's old avatar . . . The chargesheet was filed by special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam against the 10 under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act ( MCOCA ) , IPC , Explosives Act , Explosives Substances Act , Prevention of Damage to Public Properties Act and Unlawful Prevention of Activities Act . . . `` Among the wanted accused are Riyaz Bhatkal , Yasin Bhatkal , Waqas Ibrahim Sad , Danish alias Tarbez , Dubai based Muzaffar Kolah and Tehseen Akhtar Shaikh , '' said ATS chief Rakesh Maria . . . In an another development , ATS claimed to have arrested one more accused in the 13/7 blast case , Mohammed Qafeel Ansari ( 55 ) , who was already in the custody of Delhi Police in a terror-related case . . . Ansari , hailing from Darbanga in Bihar , was arrested in Mumbai blasts case on May 19 , taking the total number of arrests to five , Maria said , adding his transit remand was sought and a supplementary charge sheet would be filed soon . . . Ansari was involved in criminal conspiracy and also provided logistical support in executing the crime , ATS officials said . . . `` Riyaz , who is suspected to be in Pakistan now , was in coordination with absconding Yasin , who looks after the IM 's operations in India , had conspired and executed the blasts at business hubs with an intention to destroy economic structure ( of the city ) , '' Maria said . . . . President Pratibha Patil and Vice President Hamid Ansari on Wednesday condemned the terror attacks in LOC_Event . The President condoled the loss of lives in the blasts , a Rashtrapati Bhawan statement said . ` The President wishes speedy recovery to those injured in the incident in Mumbai , ' it added . . . . . Ansari expressed deep shock at the scale of the attacks targeted against innocent people causing numerous fatalities and casualties , a statement from the Vice President 's secretariat said . Such acts are aimed at destabilising the nation , he said and urged all citizens to unite in this critical hour . . . . . Ansari expressed deepest condolences to the families of those killed and injured in the attacks . Meanwhile , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh spoke with Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan and asked him to keep the prime minister 's office posted on the developments . . . . . Singh also spoke with Home Minister P Chidambaram and asked him to do everything needful in the matter . Bharatiya Janata Party veteran L K Advani also spoke with Chidambaram to seek an update on the developments . . . . . The BJP strongly condemned the attack in LOC_Event and asked the government to take a determined stand to deal with the menace . Congress President Sonia Gandhi condemned the dastardly act of terror in LOC_Event and expressed sympathy to the affected families and appealed to people to remain vigilant and united against these elements , an All India Congress Committee statement said . . . . . . . Condemning the LOC_Event blasts in the strongest possible terms , BJP President Nitin Gadkari asked the government to take a clear stand in setting up an effective anti-terror infrastructure . . . . . ` No word can ably express the anguish over these dastardly attacks . We condemn them in the strongest possible words , ' Gadkari said in a statement . . . . . ` We hope the government will move beyond reacting from one blast to another and take a clear stand on issues like effective deterrence infrastructure , ' he said . . . . . Gadkari said the blasts were a reminder of the fact that cases like Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru continue to wait for final action and government dithers from not talking to Pakistan . . . . . Three serial blasts rocked crowded areas of LOC_Event this evening killing at least 13 people and injuring about a hundred . . US President Barack Obama has offered US help in bringing the perpetrators of the LOC_Event blasts to justice . `` India is a close friend and partner of the United States . The American people will stand with the Indian people in times of trial , and we will offer support to India 's efforts to bring the perpetrators of these terrible crimes to justice , '' he said . . . Indian PM Manmohan Singh condemned the attacks and asked the people of LOC_Event to stay calm , while Congress President Sonia Gandhi offered condolences to the families of those dead and injured and condemned the blasts . . . The state of Pakistan has expressed its shock and disbelief at the LOC_Event blasts . `` President Asif Ali Zardari , Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani , the Government and the people of Pakistan , have condemned the blasts in LOC_Event and expressed distress on the loss of lives and injuries . The President and the Prime Minister have expressed their deepest sympathies to the Indian leadership on the loss of lives , injuries and damage to property in LOC_Event . '' . . India 's Vice-President Hamid Ansari on the Mumbai blasts : `` He expressed deep shock at the scale of the attacks targeted against innocent people that have caused numerous fatalities and casualties . He said that such terrorist acts are aimed at destabilizing the nation and urged all citizens to unite in this critical hour . He expressed deepest condolences to the families of those killed and injured in the attacks , '' said a statement from his office . . . Shops near the blast in Dadar . Parag Shinde/Firstpost . . The government should find out thosebehind this evening 's serial blasts in Mumbai , the Shiv Sena said . `` There is chaos everywhere . This must be a terrorist actas it happened in three places , '' senior Sena leader Manohar Joshi said after reaching Dadar , one of the three sites of theblasts . . . `` I want that the government take immediate steps and findout who are people behind the blasts , '' Joshi said.Lyricist Javed Akhtar said `` No words are strong enough tocondemn the attacks . '' `` This menace called terrorism ... something has to be done . . . Something drastic . This is not acceptable , '' he said.Explosions have been reported in south Mumbai 's JaveriBazar , Dadar in Central Mumbai , and Opera House in Charni Road . . . Also watch Maharashtra Chief Minister 's reaction . The Left parties on Thursday strongly condemned the LOC_Event serial blasts and rued the governments inability to track down the perpetrators of recent terror strikes . . . It is disturbing that the forces behind the recent bomb blasts in different parts of the country have not been identified and apprehended . No efforts should be spared to track down the culprits of the LOC_Event blasts , the Communist Party of India -LRB- Marxist -RRB- Polit Bureau said in a statement in New Delhi . . . In the same vein , the Communist Party of India Central Secretariat said this was not the first time that such blasts have taken place . This is clear evidence that the government is unable to trace the perpetrators through its intelligence agencies . Therefore the Centre should take appropriate measures to track down the terrorists . . . Senior CPI leader D. Raja , who visited a blast site and hospitals in LOC_Event on Wednesday night , accused Union Home Minister P. Chidambaram of continuously failing at maintaining peace . . . Observing that Mr. Chidambaram was resorting to rhetoric than action , he said though the internal security issue has been debated many times in Parliament , no decision to strengthen the security apparatus seems to have been implemented . Security agencies might have slackened their alertness . If lapses are found , action should be taken to plug the loopholes . . . Mr. Raja also criticised Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi for his reported statement that 99 per cent of terror attacks have been thwarted . . . Such casual and callous remarks should not be made . One should be more serious while commenting on such sensitive incidents , he said , adding that Mr. Gandhis comments on the U.S. and Afghanistan raises questions as to whether he knows what he is talking about . LOC_Event : The government should find out those behind this evening 's serial blasts in LOC_Event , the Shiv Sena said . `` There is chaos everywhere . This must be a terrorist act as it happened in three places , '' senior Sena leader Manohar Joshi said after reaching LOC_Event , one of the three sites of the blasts . `` I want that the government take immediate steps and find out who are people behind the blasts , '' Joshi said.Lyricist Javed Akhtar said `` No words are strong enough to condemn the attacks . `` This menace called terrorism ... something has to be done . Something drastic . This is not acceptable , '' he said.Explosions have been reported in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event , LOC_Event in LOC_Event , and LOC_Event in LOC_Event Road . . Aday after serial blasts rocked LOC_Event , Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday it was impossible to stop all terror attacks.Addressing a press conference at Bhubaneswar , the Congress MP called for efforts to stop terrorist attacks in the country.Rahul said that 99 per cent of the terror attacks had been stopped in the country , thanks to various measures , including improved intelligence.Over the last couple of years we have taken profound steps . We have improved in leaps and bounds . But terrorism is impossible to stop all the time , the Congress leader said.He further said , We work towards defeating it , but it is very difficult to stop all the attacks . Even in US they are being attacked in Afghanistan.Referring to Wednesday 's attack , Gandhi said the response of the government was prompt . We are responding to it in a quite organised fashion.Two days after the fifth anniversary of the 7/11 serial bombings , three explosions shook LOC_Event on Wednesday , killing at least 18 people and injuring more than hundred . All the blasts occurred at LOC_Event 's crowded market places in the peak rush hour.Rahul is on a two-day visit to Orissa beginning Wednesday to strengthen the grassroots base of the party . Oppn slams RahulThe BJP said the statement was unfortunate , adding , it would embolden the terror groups . Rahul Gandhi 's statement is unfortunate . Such statements are unacceptable . This will embolden all the terror outfits , said party spokesperson Rajiv Pratap Rudy.This will demoralise people . Instead , the government should have admitted it was a lapse and shown firm commitment . But we are getting such statements , Rudy added.Senior party leader L.K. Advani said , I will not comment on Rahul Gandhi . My party will . But in the US , after 9/11 , nothing of that sort has happened . They are seen as bigger enemy ( of terrorists ) than India - attacks in India can be stopped.BJP MP and Yuva Morcha leader Anurag Thakur said , This is an unfortunate statement coming from a young leader like Rahul Gandhi . This proves that the Congress does n't want to fight terror with iron hand.Shiv Sena said it was wrong for Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to equate LOC_Event terror attacks with those in Afghanistan.We elect you to protect us . When you compare the LOC_Event attacks to those in Iran , Iraq and Afghanistan , it is an insult to those killed in these attacks , Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Thursday.A case of treason should be filed against Rahul Gandhi over these remarks , he said.Rahul does not leave a single chance to insult LOC_Event . When he says the terror attacks will continue to happen , it shows that he is not fit to live in India , Raut said . - With PTI inputs . New Delhi : Opposition parties Thursday slammed Rahul Gandhi for stating that every single terror attack could not be stopped , and said it would demoralise Indians and showed a careless attitude on the part of the Congress general secretary.Bharatiya Janata Party -LRB- BJP -RRB- leaders said it would `` embolden '' terrorists . `` The BJP would like to state categorically such statements will embolden all indulging in terror . I think this is a statement that will demoralize the people of the country and we can not expect anything , '' party leader Rajiv Pratap Rudy said adding that they expected the government to admit its lapse . Communist Party of India leader D. Raja told IANS : `` It shows a very casual and careless attitude to say something like this . '' With three blasts rocking LOC_Event Wednesday evening -- at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event , killing at least 17 people and injuring 131 , Rahul Gandhi said in Bhubaneswar Thursday that 99 per cent of terror attacks in the country had been halted thanks to improved intelligence and other measures . But he also said : `` It is very difficult to stop any single terrorist attack . '' Reacting to this , Raja said : `` Chidambaram said it was a coordinated attack , why were we not able to stop it ? Chidambaram has failed as a Home Minister and Rahul Gandhi was trying to protect him . '' `` It is a failure of intelligence , we should try to understand what was the loophole . Since the 26/11 attack , Mumbai is on high alert , yet this incident occurred . Saying all terrorist incidents can not be stopped is careless , '' he said . Senior BJP Leader L.K. Advani said even though he would not comment on Rahul Gandhi 's remark , the repeated occurrence of terror attacks showed government lapses . `` I will not comment on the statement . America is a democratic country like us , but I have not heard of anything after 9/11 , '' Advani said.Congress defends Rahul Gandhi 's remarksThe Congress defended remarks of party leader Rahul Gandhi that 99 per cent of terror attacks in the country had been stopped and said that the need of the hour was to arrest those responsible for Mumbai blasts that killed 17 people a day earlier . -LRB- Read : 99 % terror attacks stopped , says Rahul Gandhi -RRB- `` The incident -LRB- in Mumbai -RRB- is very unfortunate . While the security forces have to be correct everytime , the terrorist has to succeed once in his designs . Rahul Gandhi said this evident truth , '' Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said here . He said the need of the hour was to tighten up our belts , work for providing relief to affected families and arrest those responsible for the incident . `` Hence , irresponsible statements should not be made and I hope opposition will understand , '' he said . Earlier in the day , Gandhi said in Bhubaneswar that the government had been prompt in its response to the blasts in Mumbai and emphasised that 99 per cent of terror attacks in the country had been halted due to improved intelligence and other measures . `` I do n't say it is impossible ... it is very difficult to stop any single terrorist attack , '' he said , adding that 99 per cent of attacks had been stopped . `` We must stop 100 per cent attacks , '' he said . Singhvi rejected suggestions that Maharashtra Home Minister R.R. Patil had failed in his role . `` It happened suddenly . There was no prior intelligence ... It is time to work collectively , '' Singhvi said . . Chairman of moderate Hurriyat faction Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Thursday condemned the Mumbai serial blasts saying such incidents are orchestrated to derail the dialogue process between India and Pakistan . . . `` We are saddened by the huge loss of life in the LOC_Event blasts and condemn it . Spilling the blood of innocents ? be it in LOC_Event , Palestine , Karachi or Kashmir ? is a shameful and inhuman act , '' the Mirwaiz said in a statement . United Nations : United Nations -LRB- UN -RRB- chief Ban Ki-moon has strongly condemned the serial bomb blasts that rocked India 's LOC_Event of LOC_Event , killing at least 18 people and injuring over 130 . `` The Secretary-General -LRB- Ban -RRB- condemns the attacks that have killed and injured many in LOC_Event , '' said a statement from his office . `` No cause or grievance can justify indiscriminate violence against civilians . The Secretary-General expresses his solidarity with the Government and people of India , and extends his sincere condolences to the families of the victims , '' it added.The UN Security Council also `` condemned in the strongest terms '' the bombings.They expressed their deep sympathy and sincere condolences to the victims of these `` heinous acts '' and to their families , and to the people and Government of India . `` The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security , and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable , regardless of their motivation , '' a statement read by Peter Wittig , Germany 's ambassador to the UN and current Council president , said.Terror struck LOC_Event last evening when three near-simultaneous blasts ripped through crowded areas in the city . At least 18 people were killed and over 130 injured . . A special NIA court on Tuesday ordered that terror and murder charges be framed against Delhi High Court blast accused Wasim Akram Malik . However , the court said that the offence of waging war against India was not made out against Malik by the NIA . The blast outside the Delhi High Court on September 7 last year killed 15 people and left scores of persons injured . . . The court ordered framing of criminal conspiracy , murder , attempt to murder , and voluntarily causing grievous hurt charges against Malik under the Indian Penal Code . Charges under various sections of the Explosive Substance Act and the Unlawful Activities -LRB- Prevention -RRB- Act were also ordered to be framed against the accused . . . On the charge of waging war against the country , Special Judge H. S. Sharma said : These offences -LRB- relating to waging war against country -RRB- require something more than the one which is available against the accused in this case . Merely because a bomb had exploded outside the Delhi High Court and in the e-mail , there was a reference of release of Afzal Guru , it does not mean that these three offences are made out . . . The three sections of the IPC 121-A , 122 , 123 of IPC relate to waging war against the country . The evidence , even at the stage of framing of charges under these sections has to be clear and commensurate with the requirement of these sections , Mr. Sharma said . . . One of the accused in the case , Amir Abbas Dev , had turned approver and was granted pardon by the judge . His statement recorded under Sector 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code has material that apparently indicts Malik . Dev is currently lodged in judicial custody . . . The statements of prosecution witnesses who said that Malik was in LOC_Event on June 29 to conduct reconnaissance in areas including the High Court was relied on by the court to state that there was prima facie evidence against the accused . . . Formal framing of charges against Malik is slated for September 18 . The court also said it was deliberately refraining from discussing the evidence in detail at this stage of proceedings . . . It is well settled that at the time of framing of charges , no rowing inquiry is to be made . The court is required to take into account the evidence collected during the investigation . The evidence is not required to be meticulously examined , Mr. Sharma said . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) on Friday claimed to have arrested the key conspirator of September 's blast at the Delhi High Court . The NIA arrested Wasim , an Indian medical student based in Bangladesh.Sources told Headlines Today that Wasim is studying medicine in Bangladesh . He and four others allegedly hatched the plot in Bangladesh and took the help of his local contacts in Kishtwar , Jammu and Kashmir to carry out the attack.The NIA is working on the theory that Wasim was lured by the Harkat-ul-Jehadi Islami in Bangladesh and his network in Jammu and Kashmir was used to send the e-mail claiming responsibility for the blast . NIA officials claimed that with Wasim 's arrest , they are on track to unearthing the conspiracy behind the blast and the plotters . Wasim 's arrest is the third in the Delhi High Court blast case . The NIA had earlier arrested Aamir Abbas and Abid Hussain , both residents of Kishtwar . Abid was arrested for sending the terror e-mail after the blast . The NIA was able to reach Wasim following the interrogation of Abbas.The September 13 bomb blast outside LOC_Event of the Delhi High Court left 15 people dead and over 70 injured . . AHMEDABAD : A 22-year-old data entry operator working in a town 120km from LOC_Event on Monday learnt the hard way that being funny about terror does n't pay . Monu Ojha , an internet addict from Patan , was arrested by Gujarat police after they traced a mail , threatening that the next blast would take place in LOC_Event , to his computer . But even after his arrest , the youth was unrepentant . He said he did it to alarm Gujarat cops so that security was stepped up in Ahmedabad where his family lived . Monu Ojha , the 22-year-old school dropout , who is behind the Delhi terror email , has been charged with cyber terrorism and if convicted faces life imprisonment or a jail term of 14 years . ' I do n't believe the police are equipped to fight terror and I am happy that the mail has generated so much action . I am half-guilty that it created trouble for citizens , ' he said . He admitted he expected to be famous after his act . Ojha 's mail was the third of the four that claimed responsibility for the blast and threatened more attacks . ` The breakthrough came when cyber cell tracked the email down to a server in Russia and found it to be a decoy , ' said Ahmedabad police commissioner Sudhir Sinha . A probe found that the IP address was masked by specialized software . Using cyber crime probe tools , the crime branch tracked down the computer used to send the mail to Patan . The officers then hunted down the address and detained Rajkumar Yadav , from UP . When Yadav was questioned , he directed them to his friend Monu Ojha , who confessed to sending the mail using Yadav 's laptop . TIMES VIEW : Hoax calls or mails might seem like innocent pranks to be dealt with indulgently , but that would be a completely wrong attitude to take in the times we live in . These hoax mails/calls do serious damage at several levels , each of them helping the terrorists , even if that is not the intention . For one , they add to the panic , which is precisely the purpose of terror . Secondly , they divert already overstretched police resources to investigating the hoax calls . Finally , there is the serious risk that if there are many hoax threats , the genuine ones too will be taken lightly . For all of these reasons , such hoax callers must be dealt with strictly . At the same time , the police must launch an awareness campaign to educate people on the damage such calls or mail can do . Investigators probing the LOC_Event high court blast have zeroed in on a Patna-based man and have launched a hunt to nab the owner of a car which is suspected to have ferried the perpetrators . . . ` The car 's owner has cheated a few people and they have told the investigators that the face of the car owner resembles the sketch of a suspect released last evening , ' official sources said on Thursday . . . The car has been traced to neighbouring Faridabad , nand efforts were on to trace the owner of the vehicle , they said . . . ` Another man from Patna who was arrested on charges of using a stolen ATM card is being interrogated by the joint team led by National Investigation Agency , ' they said . Twelve people have died and 75 injured in the powerful blast that took place outside gate number 5 of the court on Wednesday . . . Meanwhile , Delhi police and NIA teams met Delhi high court Chief Justice Dipak Misra and discussed with him measures to beef up security in and around court premises and installation of CCTV cameras , metal-detectors and other security gadgets . . . The sources said the government has also decided to hand over to NIA the case relating to the May 25 low-intensity blast outside the Delhi high court . . A day after the deadly attack outside the Delhi High Court , investigators have traced the Harkat-ul - Jehadi Islami email claiming responsibility for the blast to Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir . . . There are only two cyber cafes in the district . National Investigation Agency officials are questioning two owners of a cyber cafe , Mohammed and Khalid Aziz . . . ` We are investigating the email link from Kishtwar district in connection with the LOC_Event blast , ' Director General of police Kuldeep Khoda said . . . There is an input about an email being sent from Kishtwar district , he said , adding police is working on it . Khoda said no arrests have been made so far . According to police sources , the email was sent from a cyber cafe in Kishtwar from the address arkatuljihadi2011@gmail.com . . . Even as the questioning with the cyber cafe owners is underway , suspicion points towards a young boy aged around 18 years having sent the mail . Initial reports suggest that the draft was prepared as early as 7.30 am . . . ` We own responsibility of the blast at the high court , LOC_Event . Our demand is that Afzal Guru 's death sentence should be repealed immediately as we would target major High Courts and the Supreme Court of India , ' the HuJI email said . . . Secretary -LRB- Internal Secretary -RRB- in the Home Ministry , U K Bansal had said yesterday that the National Investigation Agency is also verifying the authenticity of the email received by two media channels . . . Asked about the communication received by TV channels , Director General of NIA S C Sinha had said , ` It is too premature to comment on the HuJI mail but we are looking at it seriously because HuJI is a very prominent terrorist group which considers India as target number one . ' . . Delhi Police has in the past arrested several HuJI militants from the national capital . . . Meanwhile , the NIA team is also likely to take over the investigations of the May 25 blast outside the Delhi high court as well . . . Investigators are looking at the possibility of both the high court blast being linked with the same group as traces of PETN have been established the composition of explosives used in both the blasts . . . While officials have not yet zeroed in on any particular group , the presence of PETN , has strengthened the possibility of HuJi 's involvement , since PETN is the ` explosive of choice ' for Jehadi groups such as the HUJI . . . The preliminary report that was handed over to the Home Ministry officials states that the crater was about 2 feet wide and one foot deep . . . The report says that the maximum damage was caused because of the explosion and not shrapnel . So far , forensic teams have not been able trace any wire or timer device . . . National Security Guard officials believe that a battery could have triggered the blast . They also inform that since PETN has a tendency of evaporating , only a few samples have been found from the location , but enough to strongly indicate the presence of the explosive . . . The briefcase in which explosive was placed is estimated to be of 48 cm in length , 30cm wide , and 15 cm in thickness . . . With inputs from PTI . Investigations into terror attacks have made little headway since terror groups prefer to keep their identity concealed after an attack , saysVicky Nanjappa . . . . . Wednesday 's high court blast in LOC_Event has left investigating agencies in a state of confusion . A mail that was sent out earlier in the day is the only lead that investigators have . However , there is still suspicion regarding the authenticity of the mail.A 20-member team of the National Investigating Agency has already begun its probe . The team now awaits the results from the Forensic Sciences Laboratory , which is examining the bomb composition . . . . . Although the composition will be known in a couple of days , it may not really help the agency zero down on any particular outfit . . . A couple of years back terror groups had a signature style of attack . The bombs assembled during the twin blasts in Hyderabad gave vital leads to the police since the bomb that was assembled bore a signature . Intelligence Bureau officials say that each terror group had a signature styled bomb , which made it easier to track the outfit . The Students Islamic Movement of India , Indian Mujahideen , Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islamiall had their own style of packaging and also planting a bomb . . . However , today , that has changed . Terror groups have become extremely careful not to reveal their identity when an attack has been carried out . Earlier , terror groups wanted their identity to be known since it was a matter of pride for them . However , the terror scenario has changed a great deal and terror groups prefer to keep their identity concealed . . . This change has basically made investigation a nightmare for the police . Blast cases will not be easy to investigate in the days to come . It has become a cat and mouse game between terror groups and the police and the latter are sure going to find it very difficult to crack these cases . . . . . A police officer pointed out that nowadays with each blast the investigations need to start from scratch unlike the past where they could rely heavily on information obtained from earlier blasts . . . . . The blasts earlier had a connection and all the police needed to do was to join the dots . Moreover , when the Indian Mujahideen carried out blasts , they also gave the police the privilege of a full-fledged mail that gave the first lead . Now , this too is missing and terror groups have become smarter and try their best to conceal their identity as much as possible . . . Police sources say that they will have to rely much more on human intelligence in the days to come . These blasts that are taking place may not be undertaken by full-fledged terror groups and could be the handiwork of one or two people . This would mean that the police will have go back and rely on age-old tactics to crack the case . This means they will have to activate their sources on the ground -LRB- anti-social elements -RRB- and seek information from them . . . . . They will also have to rely heavily on statements given by those people present before the blast to find out if they saw anything suspicious . . . . . Each of the latest incidents of terror would need to be treated as a fresh case and the investigations need to be independent in nature . There is no point in relying on signatures and also information from previous blasts . One thing is clear that none of these blasts in the past two years are inter-connected . . Zeenews Bureau . . New Delhi : Even as the investigating agencies grope in the dark about crucial leads pertaining to Delhi High Court blast , Pakistans links to the incident have come to fore on Wednesday . . . As per reports , a Noida-based boy , identified as Neeraj , had received a phone call from an unknown caller from Pakistan on August 17 suggesting that a blast was imminent in LOC_Event in the near future . . . The caller didnt divulge more details about his location but stressed that vital installations in LOC_Event would be blown at a chosen time . . . The boy , who lives in Bhangel area of Noida , immediately passed this information to the Noida Police Control , which later passed it to its superior officers and Delhi Police . . . The boy himself tried to verify the veracity of the phone call ( number 923453367472 ) , which was later traced to a military camp located in Islamabad . This was confirmed by Anant Dev , SP City Noida , who said , A boy identified as Neeraj received a phone call from an unknown location about a possible bomb blast in LOC_Event . The boy claimed that the call was made from Pakistan . We had passed this information to concerned officers for further verification . . . Unfortunately , no deliberate attempts were made on the part of the investigating agencies to verify the authenticity of the phone call and the matter was pushed to the back burner . . . However , with the Pakistan-based terrorist outfit Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami ( HuJI ) claiming responsibility for todays blast , the needle of suspicion has once again turned to the neighbouring country . Lending credence to the involvement of Pakistan-based elements , HuJI today sent an email claiming responsibility for the blast outside Delhi High Court this morning . . . We own the responsibility for today ` s blasts at Delhi High Court . Our demand is that Mohammed Afzal Guru ` s death sentence should be repealed immediately else we would target major High Courts and the Supreme Court of India , ' the email sent by HuJI said . . . A 20-member team led by the National Investigations Agency ( NIA ) is examining the email sent by HuJI . . . Reacting to HuJIs e-mail , NIA chief SK Sinha said the mail sent is being looked at since HuJI was involved in the Mumbai blasts too . . . HuJI ` s hand is suspected in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack at Chabad House in Colaba . . . At least eleven people were killed and over sixty others injured when a high-intensity blast went off outside the Gate number 5 of the Delhi High Court . LOC_Event : Police have released sketches of two persons suspected of planting the bomb outside Delhi high court which killed at least 11 people and injured over 60 . The sketches of the duo -- one believed to be in his 50s and the other in his mid-20s -- were prepared following descriptions provided by eyewitnesses who claimed they saw someone with a briefcase standing in the queue . ` We have released sketches of two suspects based on the descriptions given by eyewitnesses , ' a senior police official said.The younger of the two suspects could be a couple of inches shorter than 6 feet with a middle parting of the hair while the other man was described as stout and having a light beard and shallow complexion . ` We may also release a third sketch depending upon the eyewitness accounts , ' the official said.Police are also investigating whether the person who planted the bomb was among the injured.According to some eyewitnesses , a man clad in a white shirt and carrying a briefcase was seen in the queue in front of the reception of the high court complex on LOC_Event just before the explosion.Investigators said they are yet to ascertain whether there was a timer in the device . ` It may be possible that the bomb planter could not escape from the spot before the explosion took place . If there was a timer , he would have had ample time . There is also a possibility that the suspect could not manage to escape from the scene , ' a senior police official said . LOC_Event : Investigators were groping for leads on Wednesday 's blast at Delhi High Court even as an email was sent to a TV channel claiming that the attack was carried out by Indian Mujahidin and not HuJI and threatening attacks on shopping complexes on Tuesday . The email sent by one Chhotu , an alleged IM operative , was traced to Ahmedabad . Although Delhi Police detained five persons including one who had booked himself on a flight leaving for Saudi Arabia on Thursday , sources in NIA and Delhi Police acknowledged that they had no clue yet to the perpetrator of the attack that shattered the respite that the Capital has had from big terror strikes . The Saudi Arabia-bound suspect was taken to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for verification by the injured undergoing treatment . Investigating agencies were working on the assumption that the attack was the handiwork of a local module . All the five who have been detained are from the NCR region . On Thursday , investigators traced the ` HuJI ' mail received on Wednesday ` owning up ' to the blast to Global Internet Cafe in Kishtwar in Jammu . The cafe owner and two others have been detained for questioning but the youth who has been identified as the likely email author , a frequent visitor to the establishment , is yet to be traced . The HuJI email threatened more strikes unless the death sentence of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru was commuted . Although a manhunt was on for him , sources were not sure whether he was actually linked to the perpetrators of the attack , or was just one of the sympathizers of Guru seeking to cash in on the attack . The email ID used for sending the email was created at 1.04 pm -- more than two hours after the briefcase bomb went off -- something that raises the suspicion that the email may have been a clumsy effort to highlight Guru 's plea . The new email , allegedly sent by the IM at 12.37 pm from the id , said the terror group 's next target would be a shopping area . ` Hamara agla target jald hi rang layega jo ek shopping complex ke bahar hoga . Use koi nahi rok sakta aur yeh agle tuesday ko hoga . rok sako toh rok lo . -LRB- Our next target is a shopping complex . If you can stop it , stop it -RRB- , ' the sender identifying himself as Chotoo said . Like the HuJI email , the language was hurried and did not match the elaborate IM emails that followed serial blasts in 2008 . The messages were sent without much preparation . Also , unlike the previous IM emails which were timed to coincide with blasts carried out by the group , the one sent by Chhotu arrived a day later and that too in response to the alleged email by HuJI . Home ministry officials are , however , not dismissing the email , with U K Bansal , secretary , internal security , saying , ` We are examining the email received by media houses for its authenticity and veracity and we are taking it seriously . ' The ` rok sako to rok lo ' tagline matches previous IM emails . Investigators also emphasized that Asghar Ali Peerbhoy , a techie from Pune who was responsible for drafting and dispatching the earlier emails , was behind bars and that this could be the reason for the crude draft of the one sent by Chhotu on Thursday . Incidentally , Chhotu is also the alias of a jailed IM terrorist Salman . The IM email is crudely written in Hindi using Roman script and spells Mujahideen as Muzahiddin . Although investigators are looking at all possibilities , including the threat posed by Khalistani groups , the IM remains the key suspect . The IM network was busted in 2008 but some key elements like the Shanbandri brothers Riyaz and Iqbal are believed to be located in Pakistan from where they help plan and execute attacks in LOC_Event . Absconding IM members like Shahnawaz and Junaid who escaped the Batla House encounter on September 19 , 2008 are high on the list of suspects . Police and NIA personnel are questioning jailed IM members like Salman and Shehzad who were arrested a few months after the Batla House encounter . Police officers are drawing attention to an Intelligence Bureau report last year about Shahnawaz and Junaid having escaped to Pakistan for advanced bomb making training . ` Wednesday 's bomb , which was made with some sophistication , could have been made by IM members with the help of Pakistan-based outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba , ' said an officer . Delhi Police believes the previous May 25 Delhi High Court blast was also carried out by the IM but the bomb did not explode properly as detonators failed . The suspicion of Khalistani angle has to do with a July 29 intelligence alert that secessionist Sikhs could retaliate against the confirmation of death sentence of Khalistan Commando Force 's Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar . The Khalistani inputs came in mid-July from Canada based sources . Khalistanis resurfaced as a threat a couple of years ago after inputs were received from UK . Investigations led to arrests in Rajasthan . The mail from chotoomanini5@gmail.com rubbished HuJI 's alleged claims and said ` the blast was carried out by them -LRB- Indian Mujahideen -RRB- ' . Wednesday had been chosen of the preferred day as it a busy day at the high court . New Delhi : A bomb placed in a briefcase exploded at the Delhi High Court this morning killing 11 people and injuring over 70 . The explosion took place in the reception area at LOC_Event , where hundreds of people had gathered to collect passes needed to enter the courthouse . The bomb was so powerful that it drove a huge crater into the ground.The Delhi Police has released two sketches of the man believed to be responsible for today 's terror attack , based on descriptions provided by eyewitnesses . -LRB- See sketches of the suspect -RRB- . By the evening , a special team of 20 members of the National Investigating Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- that is handling the case was trying to verify the authenticity of an email received by NDTV and another media house , purportedly from the Harkat-ul-Jihadi -LRB- HuJI -RRB- , claiming responsibility for the blast.Today 's explosion took place at 10.15 am - `` rush hour '' for the courthouse which usually starts hearings at 10.30 am . -LRB- Watch -RRB- On Wednesday , Public Interest Litigations -LRB- PIL -RRB- are heard in the High Court , drawing larger than usual crowds . In the seconds after the blast , lawyers and litigants were seen running for help , their blood-soaked clothes clinging to them . `` I heard a loud noise and smoke coming out following by cries of people , '' said Narendra Kumar Singh , a guard at a construction site outside the court.Two kilos of explosives were used in the bomb , said UK Bansal , Special Secretary in the Home Ministry , adding that ammonium nitrate was used ; so was high-grade PETN which is an extremely powerful explosive which can cause considerable damaged even if used in small quantities . -LRB- Read : What is PETN ; why is it deadly ? -RRB- This is the second explosion in the Delhi High Court in four months . A smaller bomb in a parking lot in May did not cause any injuries . Police sources say that attempt may have served as a dry run by the terrorists behind today 's attack . The incident in May had underscored the need for security cameras . They have yet to be installed at the court 's nine different gates . -LRB- First pics of the blast -RRB- The police said the proposal to install security cameras was stuck with court officials . But the head of the Delhi Bar Association , Rakesh Tiku , said `` The High Court has even written to Delhi Police for installation of CCTV cameras at all gates . '' Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit said , `` We will have to wait for the investigation to tell us exactly who is at fault over the CCTVs . '' Two hours after the blast , Home Minister P Chidambaram addressed Parliament and revealed that `` Intelligence pertaining to threats emanating from certain groups was shared with Delhi Police in July , 2011 . '' He also said that it is not possible at this stage to identify who is responsible for today 's terror attack . The National Investigating Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- will supervise the inquiry with a special 20-member team . -LRB- Watch : Not yet possible to identify who 's behind blast , says Chidambaram -RRB- Delhi 's Lieutenant Governor Tejinder Khanna said that the intelligence shared with the police was `` not actionable . '' -LRB- Watch : Delhi 's Lt Governor to NDTV -RRB- An email received by different media organisations including NDTV said that the Harkat-ul-Jihadi -LRB- HuJI -RRB- takes responsibility for today 's blast . HuJI is a Pakistan-based terrorist group . `` HUJI is a lethal group ... we take the mail very seriously , '' said NIA Chief SC Sinha . The email states , `` We owe the responsibility of today 's blasts at High Court Delhi ... our demand is that Afzal Guru 's death sentence should be repealed immediately else we would target major high courts and the Supreme Court of India . `` Afzal Guru has been sentenced to death by the Supreme Court for his role in the attack on the Indian Parliament in 2001 . His mercy petition that asks for his sentence to be commuted to life is pending with President Pratibha Patil . The Home Ministry has reportedly recommended that it be rejected.Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , currently in Bangladesh on an official visit , described the attack as `` a cowardly act of a terrorist nature . '' He added , `` We will deal with it ... we will never succumb to the pressure of terrorism ... this is a long war . '' -LRB- Read -RRB- The Opposition BJP said the war against terror needs a combined front across party lines , but was severe in its indictment of the government . Sushma Swaraj who visited the High Court said the government 's lethargy had been exposed by the fact that the High Court has been attacked twice - and there are still no security cameras . Arun Jaitley said `` Not generating intelligence is failure of intelligence . '' There was no shortage of political stopovers at the court . Mr Chidambaram visited the site of the blast ; so did Ms Swaraj , senior BJP leader LK Advani and the Congress ' Rahul Gandhi , who had been heckled when he visited Ram Manohar Lohia hospital where some of those injured are being treated . While Parliament was adjourned for the day , by 2 pm , the High Court was back to work to signal that it remains strong despite today 's attack . -LRB- Watch : Crowd heckles Rahul Gandhi outside hospital -RRB- But the conversations in and outside court-rooms were about the tragedy . Lawyer Sanjeev Beniwal rushed his client Mehtab Singh to a Delhi hospital after the explosion . Mr Singh did not survive . `` He -LRB- Singh -RRB- was fighting a property-related case at the court . He was getting his pass made when the blast occurred . His son Rohit and my associate Sachin Powa have also been injured . We rushed them to hospital and I just want them to be safe as I could not save Singh , '' said Mr Beniwal , who was also injured.The government will find itself struggling to provide an explanation for why terror continues to stalk cities with relative ease . On July 13 , also a Wednesday , three bombs exploded in crowded markets in LOC_Event during rush hour . More than 20 people were killed . -LRB- Watch : Delhi High Court blast - Eyewitness account -RRB- Here are the emergency helpline numbers : RML hospital : 011-23348200 , 23404446 , 23743769 , 23404478AIIMS : 011-26588700Safdarjung Hospital Helpline : 011 - 26707444 . United Nations : The United Nations Security Council -LRB- UNSC -RRB- today joined UN Chief Ban Ki-moon in strongly condemning the deadly terror attack in LOC_Event , saying such `` heinous '' acts of terrorism are `` criminal and unjustifiable '' . Moon expressed solidarity with the government and people of India and reiterated `` his firm stance that there is no justification for indiscriminate violence against civilians , '' deputy UN spokesman Eduardo del Buey said.The Secretary-General `` hopes that the perpetrators will be brought to justice , '' Buey said.In a separate statement read by the current UN Security Council President , Lebanon 's envoy to the UN Nawaf Salam , the UNSC also `` condemned in the strongest terms '' the terrorist attack that killed 12 people and left over 60 injured . `` The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security , and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and unjustifiable , regardless of their motivation , wherever , whenever and by whomsoever committed , '' the 15-member council said.Expressing sympathy and condolences to families and victims of the `` heinous act '' , the Security Council said it is determined to combat all forms of terrorism . . Prime Minister Julia Gillard has condemned a deadly bomb attack at LOC_Event 's LOC_Event as an act of senseless violence . . . An Islamist militant group has reportedly claimed responsibility for the attack , in which at least 10 people have been killed and another 62 injured . . . `` The government and people of Australia unreservedly condemn the bombing , '' Ms Gillard said in a statement on Wednesday . . . `` Our thoughts are with the families of the innocent people who have been killed and with those injured by the blast . '' . . She said Australia continued to give its full support to India 's anti-terrorism work . . . The bomb went off after being hidden in a briefcase in a reception area where more than 100 people were waiting for passes to the court complex , located in the heart of the Indian capital . . . Indian police investigators have received an email reportedly from the Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami group claiming responsibility . . . Opposition foreign affairs spokeswoman Julie Bishop said the attack was a blow to Indian society . . . . Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday expressed her profound shock and outrage over the bomb blast in LOC_Event that claimed at least 11 lives , saying that any act of terrorism is unacceptable and unjustifiable . . . She condemned the heinous act and stated that any act of terrorism is unacceptable , criminal and unjustifiable , regardless of their motivation , a Foreign Office statement in Dhaka said . . . The blast outside the Delhi High Court took place when Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was in Dhaka as part of his two-day visit . . . On behalf of the people and government of Bangladesh , Ms. Hasina conveyed heartfelt sympathies and profound condolences to the members of the bereaved families , the statement said . . . She also offered prayers for the eternal peace of those who have passed away , and for the people of India to bear this shock with fortitude , it said . . . Earlier in the day , Dr. Singh , addressing a gathering of intellectuals at the Dhaka University , praised Bangladeshs initiatives to fight terrorism and work together with India to crush the militant forces . I would like to acknowledge the immense cooperation India has received from Bangladesh in this area , which is in the interest of both India ad Bangladesh , he said . Nations across the world on Wednesday condemned the bomb blast outside the Delhi High Court , that caused heavy casualties , with the U.S. offering every possible assistance to India . . . On behalf of all Americans , I extend deep condolences to the Government of India and the families of those harmed in this mornings attack on the New Delhi High Court . . . Terrorism is a crime that affects us all . Bombings like todays demonstrate that our shared struggle continues against those who would commit such atrocities , U.S. Charge dAffaires Peter Burleigh said in a statement . . . He said the U.S. remains shoulder-to-shoulder with India in the fight against terror , and will provide whatever assistance possible to help bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice . . . Calling the blast a cowardly attack , British Foreign Secretary William Hague said I was appalled to hear of the bomb blast outside the High Court in LOC_Event today . . . I condemn this cowardly attack and send my deepest condolences to those who have lost loved ones or who have been injured . . . The UK is committed to standing together with India in the fight against terrorism in all its forms and we will continue to work together to counter this threat . . . Unreservedly condemning the bombing , a statement from the Australian Prime Ministers office , issued by Australian High Commission here , said , This act of senseless violence , directed at one of the institutions of government , appears to have been planned to cause a high number of casualties among the general public . . . The Australian statement added , We extend our sympathy and concern to the government and people of India at this time . Our thoughts are with the families of the innocent people who have been killed , and with those injured by the blast . . . The Indian government and people have Australias full support as they continue to combat terrorism . . . Israel also condemned the blast with its visiting Tourism Minister Stas Misezhnikov expressing shock and dismay over the vicious terror attack and conveyed his countrys condolences to the bereaved families . . . Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani expressed their deepest sympathies to the families of the victims of the bombing , to the Government and people of India . . . They expressed the hope that the perpetrators of this heinous act will be brought to justice , a Foreign Ministry statement said in Islamabad . . . Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina expressed profound shock and outrage over the bomb blast , saying that any act of terrorism is unacceptable and unjustifiable . . . She condemned the heinous act and stated that any act of terrorism is unacceptable , criminal and unjustifiable , regardless of their motivation , a Foreign Office statement said in Dhaka . . . She also offered prayers for the eternal peace of those who have passed away , and for the people of India to bear this shock with fortitude , it said . Zeenews Bureau . . New Delhi : In a significant development , a suspected terrorist belonging to the terror outfit Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) , believed to be involved in the LOC_Event serial blasts , was arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police in LOC_Event on Friday morning . . . According to reports , the IM operative who has been identified as Maqbool was picked up following an intelligence tip-off about his movement . Maqbool is accused of making the Improvised Explosive Device that was used in the blast on August 1 . The IM terrorist is currently being deported to Delhi for further interrogation by the Special Cell of Delhi Police . . . This is the fifth arrest in connection with the August 1 Pune serial blasts . . . On August 17 , another suspected IM terrorist Langde Irfan was arrested in Jaipur by the Delhi Police . . . Irfan was apprehended from Jaipur ` s Sindhi bus stand on October 10 by a team of Delhi Police ` s Special Cell . . . Police is still on the lookout for one Raju Bhai , who allegedly arranged hideouts for three of the arrested persons , and another unidentified person . Delhi Police had earlier arrested three suspected IM operatives - Asad Khan ( 33 ) , who is a recruiter , motivator and ideologue of the IM , and Imran Khan ( 31 ) were arrested on September 26 from their hideout in Pul Prehladpur in south Delhi while Syed Firoze ( 38 ) was nabbed from Nizamuddin Railway station five days later . . . With Agency Inputs . PUNE : Investigators suspect that Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- operative Yasin Bhatkal , the man most wanted for a string of terror attacks across the country , planted one of the bombs on LOC_Event on August 1 , around four hours before four low-intensity blasts rocked LOC_Event . Sources told TOI that the investigators , while inspecting CCTV foot-age collected from various establishments on LOC_Event , zeroed in on a man , bearing a strong resemblance to Yasin , coming on a bicycle and parking it opposite the Sai Service petrol pump . The bomb , which was placed in a basket strapped on to the handle of the bicycle , did not go off . The bomb disposal squad later defused the explosive . ` The footage showed that after parking the bicycle there around 3 pm , the man left the spot quickly . After minutely going through the footage , the investigators strongly suspect the man to be Yasin Bhatkal , ' sources said . A key IM operative who also operates under the aliases Siddibappa and Shahrukh , Yasin is wanted for the German Bakery blast in which 17 people were killed , apart from several other blasts across the country . He has managed to evade the police since 2008 . His image was also captured on CCTV at the German Bakery on February 13 , 2010 . Sources said the investigators have identified three more persons who they suspect are involved in the LOC_Event blasts . One of them is believed to be Kondhwa resident Mohsin Chaudhury , another key IM operative , who has been on the run since 2008 . The investigators ' strong suspicion that the man seen in the CCTV footage could be Yasin is strengthened by the fact that the IM operative is known to personally go to sites of the different blasts he is believed to have engineered across the country . ` Yasin is known to himself direct terror attacks and provide support to other bomb planters . The investigators are also examining the CCTV footage of a few days before the LOC_Event blasts , ' the sources said . Amitesh Kumar , additional commissioner of police of the state anti-terrorism squad , said , ' I do n't have any such information about the man -LRB- Yasin Bhatkal -RRB- . ' In Mumbai , sources from the security establishment said that Yasin is a ` weird person ' who is capable of planting the bombs himself . ` But in this case , we are not sure as of now , ' an official said . Yasin 's name first came up in 2008 after the arrest of IM operatives from Pune and Mangalore . Investigators said he had gone to Pakistan for terror training and knows how to assemble bombs . In the Mumbai 13/7 serial blasts , the investigators suspected Yasin of having personally given explosives and detonators to his aides to be delivered to Mumbai . In November 2011 , Delhi Police arrested four IM men , including Pakistani national Mohammed Adil , Mohammed Qateel Siddiqui , Gauhar Aziz Khomani and Gayoor Jamali from the capital 's Nangloi area . During interrogation , they told the police that Yasin and his father-in-law , Mohammed Irshad Khan , had fled the place immediately after news of the arrests had leaked out . Police then learnt that Yasin was staying with Irshad Khan at a relative 's house in Selaiyur , Chennai . The Delhi police raided the house and arrested Irshad , but Yasin , who had gone to the market , slipped away . LOC_Event : . . 2.35 pm : Delhi police sends special team to Pune . The Special Cell Team is expected to gather information about the chemicals used in the explosives . . . 2.25 pm : Reports claim use of cycles and triggers indicate possible links to Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) . . . 1.35 pm : Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde addresses press after the high-level meet . . . Shinde said a team of National Investigation and experts of National Security Guards were already in Pune and they have joined the investigation with Maharashtra Police . . . `` The report of the investigation has not yet come , '' he said , adding , one injured person had been admitted to hospital . . . Asked how he would like to describe the four explosions in his home state , the minister said `` I can not say what sort of attack it was '' . . . Shinde also said he has no immediate plan to visit Pune . . . Yesterday 's blasts took place hours after Shinde assumed charge of the key Home Ministry . . . 12.38 pm : Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde convened a high-level meeting on Thursday to assess the security situation in the country . The meeting was attended by Home Secretary RK Singh and senior officials from intelligence agencies like RAW and IB . . . 12.07 noon : Reports state that the CCTVs at the blast venue were not working as contractor was not paid . . . 11.30 am : Cops quiz prime accesses wife . . . 11.20 am : Deccan Gymkhana Police Station registered an FIR in the case . . . 10.57 am : Reacting on the serial blasts Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi said the Centre should adopt a zero tolerance policy on terror and take strong measures to curb such attacks . . . `` I hope the Government of India , by adopting a zero tolerance policy on terror , will take some stern steps to curb such terror strikes and make its presence felt , which is a common expectation of the people , '' Modi told reporters here . . . Such attacks still indicate that terrorist still have a stronghold in the country and measures should be taken to check and prevent such incidents , Modi said . . . `` The blast in LOC_Event is an issue of concern . A terror strike on the eve of Rakshbandhan celebrations and on joining of new Home Minister in India shows ulterior motives of those wanting to create an atmosphere of fear and instability in the nation , '' Modi said . . . `` There is a need to remain vigilant and give it a more serious thought . The issue is not where the blast occurred , what was its intensity , how much damage was caused , but these elements are giving a message that their power should not be undermined or ignored , '' he said . . . 9.55 am : Maharashtra Home Minister R R Patil on Thursday said investigating agencies were probing all angles to determine whether any terror outfit was behind the low intensity serial bomb blasts that rocked the city last night . . . `` Whether it was a terrorist act or not will be determined only after proper investigations are carried out by Maharashtra ATS , city crime branch and central agencies , '' Patil told reporters after visiting the four blast sites on LOC_Event here . . . When asked whether there could be a `` saffron terror '' angle to the incident , he said , `` All angles are being probed and it will not be proper to comment at this stage . '' . . Earlier , media reports had claimed that the man who was injured in the blast near Balgandharva and who was thought to be the main suspect was given a clean chit by the police on Thursday . . . Reports state , the person who was identified as Dayanand Patil , a local tailor , had accidentally picked up the bag out of curiosity , opened it and got injured . He was discharged from Sasoon Hospital on Thursday morning but was taken into custody by the Pune Crime Branch for further questioning . . . The police have also collected the CCTV footage of the blast sites . . . Home Secretary RK Singh said that the NIA team is investigating the 2 IEDs that did n't explode . . . He said that since blasts took place in 45mins within a 1km radius , it shows that there was some planning involved . . . NIA reports confirm that the bicycles used in the blasts were all brand new and the cops are questioning all the bicycle dealers in the city . . . A team of the National Bomb Data Centre ( NBDC ) led by a lieutenant colonel on Thursday visited the blast spot outside LOC_Event on LOC_Event . The team collected samples of the explosive that that had gone off outside the restaurant . . . The team of police officials collected the bicycles and dustbins in an investigation van . The bicycles and dustbins would be part of the material evidence . . . Initial reports indicate that ammonium nitrate was used in the Pune blasts . During the investigation , some black sticky substance has been found which is being studied by the FSL to ascertain what exactly it is . . . Reports claim that the material used in the blast suggests it was a well-planned attack . Media reports state that the the operation does n't appear to be the work of a sleeper cell but of a terror group . . . Forensic experts who visited the four sites are closely examining the detonators and ball bearings used in the bombs . The fifth bomb that was defused is also being examined for leads . . . Related Articles : Suspect of Pune blasts a local tailor , says policeSecurity tightened in Kolkata following LOC_Event blastsSecurity stepped up in Chandigarh after blasts in LOC_Event . . KUCH BHI OMG OH ! TERI WOW ! FUNNY AWW ! . . KUCH BHI OMG OH ! TERI WOW ! FUNNY AWW ! . . googletag.display ( ` div-gpt-ad-1415181470682-6 ' ) ; . . googletag.display ( ` div-gpt-ad-1415181470682-6 ' ) ; . . . PUNE/NEW DELHI : Less than 24 hours after minor blasts rocked Pune , security experts on Thursday were stunned by evidence that the serial explosions were part of a full-blown terror attack , which providentially went awry , preventing mass casualties on the city 's bustling LOC_Event . An official said a design flaw in the bombs caused them to explode partially and prevented the shrapnel from spreading . Without naming any group , a top home ministry official in New Delhi said there were ` credible leads ' pointing to a ` big plan ' by a terror outfit . ` Preliminary forensic result which is an outcome of the detailed examination of the two unexploded IEDs and nature of blasts shows that the bomb had all the ingredients to cause a much bigger impact and had the potential to take lives of many people . ' In LOC_Event , police bomb experts who supervised dismantling of the devices also said the four bombs placed on LOC_Event road on Wednesday evening exploded only partly . Had these and the two that were defused gone off fully , the damage caused would have been ` major ' , they said . A bomb disposal officer , speaking on condition of anonymity , told TOI each bomb contained two or three detonators , a nine-volt battery , a circuit , a timer , ball bearings and a yellow sticky substance . ` The design of the bombs was faulty , due to which they did not explode fully . The bearings were by and large intact even in the devices that went off . Had the bombs exploded fully , the bearings could have injured several people , ' he said . The officer said at least five detonators did not explode . ` We defused these detonators at our office at Shivajinagar , ' he said . The expert said a sticky substance covered the detonators , batteries and bearings in each bomb . ` We have sent the substance to the state forensic laboratory for chemical analysis , ' he said . Police were probing whether the bombs contained ammonium nitrate , a powerful explosive . On Wednesday , police had said there were four blasts and one device had been defused before the timer could go off . Sources in New Delhi , meanwhile , said the manner in which digital wristwatches were used as timers and the detonator circuits along with the way bombs were kept on three newly-bought bicycles , one dustbin and two polythene bags were similar to the technique adopted by the banned terror group Indian Mujahideen . The terror outfit had adopted a similar modus operandi in the serial blasts in Lucknow , Faizabad and Varanasi in November , 2007 and in Jaipur in May , 2008 . Union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde and home secretary R K Singh , however , remained reticent about the horrific revelations . ` We have taken it very seriously , ' said Shinde , indicating that the low-intensity blasts were not being dismissed as a mere messaging by a terror group and the government was aware of a carefully-scripted plan . ` Since the blasts have taken place within an area of 500 metres and within a span of 45 minutes , it appears to be a coordinated act . I am sure there was a plan behind it , ' said home secretary R K Singh . Meanwhile , Pune police on Thursday identified the shop from where two of the three new bicycles were purchased by the terrorists . Officers said two men bought the bicycles from Soni Cycle Trading Company at Phadke Haud , Budhwar Peth , around 11am on Wednesday , about eight hours before the first bomb went off . The police have questioned the owner of the shop , his brother and two employees and based on descriptions given by them , sketches of the two men have been prepared . The shop owner also told police the two men were speaking Gujarati . A senior police officer from the crime branch told TOI that the shop was traced with the help of serial numbers embossed on the bicycles . ` We searched several bicycle shops in the Phadke Haud area , ' an officer said . The officer said police have also taken CCTV footage from a firecracker shop in Shaniwar Peth . ` The shop owner has installed a high-resolution camera at his shop . The camera is facing the road . We are suspecting that the duo may have used the road in front of the shop . ' Meanwhile , police are still questioning Dayanand Patil , the man injured in first of the blasts at LOC_Event . Cops also questioned his wife , Satyakala , in Pune and recorded her statement . Police said Patil had visited either Jordan or Dubai in 2003 . They have seized his passport and are trying to ascertain the reason for his visit abroad . Police refused to say whether he was being seen as a suspect in the blasts . Patil works as a tailor at a laundry on Shirole road , a few metres from LOC_Event . He lives in Urulikanchan , 20 km from the city , with his wife and three-year-old daughter . Pune : LOC_Event this evening saw four low-intensity blasts in a span of nearly 40 minutes on its busy LOC_Event in the heart of the city . Two other bombs have been defused by the Anti-Terror Squad . All the bombs were placed within a kilometre . At least one person has been injured . He has been taken into custody.Home Secretary RK Singh told NDTV that the injured person is being treated as suspect and questioned by the police . Mr Singh also said that a terror angle can not be ruled out as it appears to be a planned attack.Sushil Kumar Shinde , who took over today as India 's Home Minister , was scheduled to be in the city tonight to preside over a prize-giving ceremony . He cancelled his plans at the last minute . `` The blasts were of low-intensity . I was supposed to be at the Tilak Theatre , very near to where one of the blasts took place . At this moment , I can not say anything more . It is now a matter of inquiry , '' he told reporters in Delhi.The explosions took place between 7.37 and 8.15 pm during rush hour in the heart of the city on LOC_Event , crowded with restaurants , shops and the large Sambhaji Park , popular for family outings in the evening . The blasts took place outside the Balgandharva auditorium used to stage plays , at a statue near that theatre , opposite a McDonalds outlet and near a bank . One of the bombs , placed on a cycle , was hooked up to sophisticated circuitry , say sources . In Mumbai , Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan called a meeting with senior officials to step up security for the financial capital . `` Two teams from the NIA will reach Pune . Bomb disposal experts also . All experts to come to Pune and find out what device it was and what was the motive . When we know anything more concrete , we will share ... Request people not to panic , '' he said.After the blasts all cities across India are on high alert . A bomb disposal squad swept LOC_Event in New Delhi where Anna Hazare and his activists are on a hunger strike , supported by a large crowd . -LRB- Read : High alert in Delhi -RRB- Mr Shinde cancelled his trip to Pune at the last minute to meet with officials in his new assignment at the home ministry , said Jitender Singh , the junior Home Minister . `` Please stay calm ... the government of India and Maharashtra will work towards cracking this , '' Mr Singh said on NDTV . The Anti-Terror Squad is examining CCTV footage from the branch of McDonald 's outside which one of the explosion took place . The police says it has fanned out across the city ; it has urged residents to report any suspicious object and not to touch unclaimed objects . The Army has also sent a bomb disposal squad to the blast site at the request of the local administration . Pune is the Southern Command headquarters of the Indian Army.In February 2010 , 17 people were killed in a bomb blast at the popular German Bakery near Pune 's famous Osho ashram . After being arrested in the US , Lashkar-e-Taiba operative David Coleman Headley confessed to having filmed the bakery to help in the planning and execution of the terror attack . . Zeenews Bureau . . Pune : High alert was declared in the state of LOC_Event as a series of well-coordinated bomb blasts ripped through the heart of LOC_Event on Wednesday . . . Four blasts of low intensity took place in quick succession within a radius of 500 metres of LOC_Event , injuring one - the very person carrying the explosives . . . Home Secretary RK Singh has not ruled out terror angle saying that the blasts have been carried out in a very well-planned manner . . . However , Home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde dodged the questions over a terror link to the blasts and said that these were minor blasts that occurred between 7.27 pm and 8.15 pm . . . Police Commissioner of LOC_Event , Gulabrao Pol , spoke to Zee News saying that detonators and batteries were used in the blasts . . . He further said that one of the blasts occurred in a plastic bag being carried by a person , who got injured . He has been identified as Dayanand Patil and is being interrogated by the police . . . Trying to avert a wave of panic among citizens , LOC_Event Police Commissioner said that the blasts were of low intensity and public need not panic . He assured , ` Police are alert and doing their job ' . . . Three blasts took place on bicycle and the fourth in a garbage dump . . . First explosion occurred in a garbage dump near LOC_Event after which another blast took place outside Bal Gandarv theatre auditorium . . . Very significantly , Sushil Kumar Shinde , was to arrive here this evening . . . Third explosion occured near LOC_Event , where the bomb was kept on a bicycle career . . . Fourth blast took place at LOC_Event . . . Two more live bombs were recovered from the area , which were diffused by the bomb disposal squad . . . Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad has been handed over the investigation of the serial blasts . . . The first visuals on Zee News showed cops flashing torches over the garbage heap outside the Bal Gandarv auditorium . . . The police have also accessed the CCTV footage of the area , which is being viewed for further information . . . The blasts bring back the tragic memories of the fateful German Bakery blasts that had claimed 17 lives . Four low-intensity blasts rocked the busy Junglee Maharaj Road in LOC_Event on Wednesday evening injuring one person . . . The explosions were set off with pencil cell detonators placed in a plastic bag , a dustbin and on cycles at two locations , police said . . . Speaking to reporters at a blast site , Pune Police Commissioner Gulabrao Pol said it was a case of mischief and no terror act . The situation is under control . There is no need to panic , he added . . . However , Union Home Secretary R.K. Singh said in New Delhi that it was a planned attack and terrorists role could not be ruled out . . . The first explosion occurred around 7.30 p.m. near the Balgandharva Rang Mandir , an auditorium on LOC_Event . Dayanand Patil , who was injured in the blast , was carrying a cake box kept in a plastic bag , police said . . . He was admitted to the Sassoon Hospital , where the police recorded his evidence . . . While an unconfirmed report stated that Mr. Patil was a member of social activist Anna Hazares India Against Corruption movement , IAC coordinator Preeti Sharma Menon denied it . . . According to the police , the second explosion occurred in a dustbin outside the popular fast food joint McDonalds . Soon after , the third and fourth blasts were reported at LOC_Event and LOC_Event , in the same vicinity , with the explosive material planted on cycles . . . Another bomb was defused by the police within the next one hour . The number of the injured might have been higher , but have not been reported as they were minor injuries . . . The explosions occurred on a day the newly appointed Union Home Minister , Sushilkumar Shinde , was scheduled to visit the city . The visit was , however , cancelled earlier in the day . The Home Ministry has rushed a team of National Investigation Agency sleuths to probe the blasts . . . Talking to journalists in New Delhi , Mr. Shinde said a team of the NIA and a bomb disposal squad of the National Security Guard were rushed to LOC_Event . I have no information of its being a terror attack , he said . . . Alert in Delhi . . PTI reports : . . Delhi was put on heightened vigil with the deployment of armed police personnel across the city in the wake of the LOC_Event blasts . . . Roads were barricaded and vehicles checked , while security was strengthened at vital installations like Parliament and other key buildings . . . The police also strengthened security at Jantar Mantar , where Anna Hazare and his team are on an indefinite fast . 11.15 pm Maharashtra Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan . . `` All blasts occurred within 1km radius . Maharashtra deputy chief minister , state home minister , two NIA teams from Delhi , Maharashtra ATS chief are all going to LOC_Event . '' . . 10.50 pm Total seven IEDs used . . . 10.45 pm : Pune-based Army Southern Command sends bomb disposal squads to assist LOC_Event police . . . 10.28 pm `` One of the injured person , who carried the bomb , is in custody , '' says home secretary RK Singh . . . 10.07 pm FOUR BLASTS . FIFTH DEFUSED . SAYS HOME MINISTER SUSHIL KUMAR SHINDE . . . 10.06 pm `` Blasts occurred between 7.27pm-8 .15 pm . I had to go to LOC_Event to attend a function , '' said Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde in New Delhi . . . 10.05 pm : CFSL to leave for LOC_Event from New Delhi . . . Policemen cordon off an area after a blast in LOC_Event on Wednesday . Four low-intensity bomb blasts in quick succession shook the city in the evening injuring at least two people . PTI . . 10.03 pm Terror angle can not be ruled out in LOC_Event explosions as it appears to be planned attack : Home Secretary RK Singh . . . 9.45 pm `` Terror angle can not be ruled out , '' says home secretary RK Singh . . . 9.19 pm Sixth explosive defused . . . 9.11 pm : Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad , bomb squad , National Investigation Agency rush for blast spots . NIA teams to fly in from Delhi and Mumbai . . . 9.09 pm : FIFTH BLAST REPORTED . ONE MORE INJURED . BLAST AT DECCAN MALL . . . 9.07 pm `` There is no terror angle . It is an act of mischief , '' Gulabrao Pol , Police Commissioner , LOC_Event told CNN-IBN . . . 9.04 pm : The area has many shops . People have gathered to shop for Rakhi on Thursday . The low intensity blasts caused more panic while no casualties were reported so far . . . 9.00 pm : Snippets of details of emerging . In three incidents , cycles were used . This modus operandi was also seen in earlier blasts in Uttar Pradesh . . . Leaf from the past : The LOC_Event blast . . In February 2010 , 17 people were killed and at least 60 injured when a bomb went off at the crowded LOC_Event in LOC_Event . An Italian woman , two Sudanese students , and an Iranian student were among those killed . The LOC_Event is located close to the Jewish Chabad House in Koregaon Park . The involvement of Indian Mujahideen , the Indian arm of the Pakistan-based terror outfit Lasker-e-Taiba , was suspected in the incident . . . 8.45 pm `` We had three blasts at three different locations , '' Gulabrao Pol , Police Commissioner , LOC_Event told CNN-IBN . . . 8.40 pm One bomb was placed on a cycle carrier outside LOC_Event , another in a dustbin outside LOC_Event , one more in a cake outside the LOC_Event . The fourth blast was at the LOC_Event . . . 8.35 pm Sketchy details coming in . The explosions took place on the LOC_Event , a popular hangout for college students in the city . . . 8.30 pm Gory memories of the LOC_Event blast in 2010 came alive to LOC_Event citizens today evening as four low intensity blasts rocked the city injuring one person , police said . . . The explosions took place on the LOC_Event , a popular hangout for college students in the city , a CNN-IBN report said . MUMBAI : In a twist to the LOC_Event serial blasts case , Maharashtra home minister R R Patil on Thursday said the Pune police commissioner had received an anonymous letter a few days ago , warning that the death of Qateel Siddiqui in police custody would be avenged . The police had identified Qateel as an Indian Mujahideen operative allegedly involved in several terror cases , including the German Bakery blast and the Bangalore terror attack . He was strangled to death by his two inmates at the Yerawada jail in Pune in June . ' A letter , written in Marathi , indicating that Qateel 's death had become a major flashpoint , was received by the Pune police , ' Patil said , adding , ` According to preliminary reports , ammonium nitrate was used . But the department is awaiting a detailed report from the forensic laboratory on this . ' Although the letter is anonymous , the investigating team is looking into its source . ATS and crime branch teams have formed to probe the blast case . Besides the anonymous letter , all other possible angles , too , are being scanned by the investigating team . Minister of state for home Satej Patil said , ` Electronic timer and square batteries were used in explosives . ' The investigating agencies are also trying to find out how Dayanand Patil came in contact with the bomb . CCTV footage , which is available , is being scanned by the investigating team . With the festival season to begin soon , the state government held a high-level internal security meeting in Mantralaya . ` In the meeting , the law and order situation , especially security arrangements in Mumbai , Pune , Thane and other metros ahead of festivals like Dahi-Handi , Id and Ganeshotsav , were reviewed , ' said a senior home department official . ` Even coastal security was discussed in the meeting , ' the official added . Newly appointed director general of police -LRB- DGP -RRB- , Sanjeev Dayal , briefed chief minister Prithviraj Chavan about the Pune blast and the law and order situation in the state , it is learnt . New Delhi : A Delhi court on Wednesday extended till October 27 the police custody of three suspected Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) operatives allegedly involved in the August 1 LOC_Event blasts . . . Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vidya Parkash extended the custody of the three by 10 days after police said they needed to confront three of them with the fourth accused Landge Irfan Mustafa , who was arrested Oct 10 from Jaipur . . . `` Consequently , all the ... three accused persons are further remanded to police custody till Oct 27 , '' said the court . . . The court observed that three alleged IM operatives are also required to be confronted with fourth accused ( Landge Irfan Mustafa ) who is already in police custody till Oct 30 . . . MS Khan , counsel of the accused , strongly opposed the extension of their police custody . . . MS Khan , counsel of the accused , strongly opposed the extension of their police custody . . . Two of them - Asad Khan , 33 , and Imran Khan , 31 - were arrested from south Delhi on September 26 , when they reportedly came to Delhi from Pakistan . . . The third operative , Sayed Firoz alias Hamza , 38 , was arrested on October 1 from the Nizamuddin railway station here . . . Asad - a computer expert inclined towards jehad - was the alleged recruiter , motivator and ideologue of this IM module which allegedly got Rs 3 lakh from their mentors abroad . New Delhi : The fourth suspected Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) operative allegedly involved in the 1 August Pune blast was arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police , an official said Wednesday . The other three accused were arrested earlier . . . The accused has been identified as Landge Irfan Mustafa , 30 . He was arrested near a bus stand in Jaipur on 10 October , police said . . . `` Mustafa was one of the other accused in the Pune blast . Many are still absconding , '' said Special Commissioner of Police ( Special Cell ) SN Srivastav . . . Mustafa is undergoing 20 days of police custody , which ends on 30 October . . . Asad Khan , 33 , and Imran Khan , 31 were arrested from south Delhi on 26 September . The third alleged operative , Sayed Firoz alias Hamza , 38 , was arrested on 1 October from the Nizamuddin Railway Station here . The Delhi Police today claimed to have cracked the 1 August LOC_Event blast case with the arrest of three alleged Indian Mujahideen operatives from Pul Prahladpur in Delhi . Police claimed all the three suspected terrorists are from Maharashtra and were planning to carry out terror strikes in Delhi and at LOC_Event in Bihar during the festive season . . . `` Delhi Police special cell has cracked the LOC_Event blast case . We have arrested three people - Asad Khan of Aurangabad , Imran Khan of Nanded and Syed Feroz of LOC_Event , '' Delhi Police Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said . . . Referring to the LOC_Event blasts , Kumar said that the alleged terrorists had bought electronics and cycles from Budhwar Peth in the city for the terror strike . . . Delhi police commissioner Neeraj Kumar . . . The police also said that Lashkar-e-Toiba operative and 26/11 plotter Abu Jundal 's interrogation led to the arrest of the three IM operatives . . . The Commissioner added that the name of another key LeT terrorist Fayyaz Qagzi was revealed by Jundal during the interrogation . . . `` This shows a direct link between Indian Mujahideen and Lashkar-e-Toiba , '' he said . . . According to the police , on 8 June , 2012 Qateel Siddique , accused in the LOC_Event blast and LOC_Event attack , was killed by jail inmates Sharad Mohan and Ashok Bhalerao in the Yerawada jail in Pune . The duo killed Siddique as he boasted that his group would carry out a blast at LOC_Event , a famous LOC_Event in LOC_Event . . . The investigation into his murder revealed that he was part of a bigger conspiracy and led to the arrest the three IM operatives in Delhi . . . The three arrested persons were reportedly close to fugitive Indian Mujahideen chief Yasin Bhatkal . The police had on 27 March arrested another suspected Indian Mujahideen terrorist , an alleged aide of Bhatkal , from north-east Delhi with one kg explosives and a detonator . Assadullah Rehman alias Dilkash ( 20 ) was apprehended from Chandu Nagar in Karawal Nagar . Dilkash , who hails from Darbhanga in Bihar , had allegedly escaped in November 2011 from the arms factory run by Indian Mujahideen in west Delhi 's Nangloi before the police crackdown during which a number of suspected terrorists were nabbed by police . . . A senior police official said Dilkash had told police that he had recently taken on rent a premises at Chandu Nagar from where investigators allegedly recovered one kg of explosive powder , a detonator , a timer and a mobile phone . `` He came in contact with Mohd Kafeel Ahmad , the motivator and ideologue of Indian Mujahideen , who was arrested earlier . He was motivated by Ahmad to join Indian Mujahideen . In February 2011 , Ahmad introduced him to Bhatkal who further motivated him , '' the official said . . . In April 2011 , the official said , on instructions from Bhatkal , he reached Delhi and was taken to the factory at Meer Vihar in Nangloi which was later busted by police . There he learnt to work on the lathe machine and assisted Mohd Irshad and Bhatkal in allegedly manufacturing pistols and other arms and ammunition . `` He became a trusted aide of Bhatkal , '' the official claimed . With inputs from PTI . LOC_Event : Maharashtra Home Minister RR Patil on Friday said that investigating agencies were probing all angles to determine whether any terror outfit was behind the low intensity serial bomb blasts that rocked the city on Wednesday . . . Whether it was a terrorist act or not will be determined only after proper investigations are carried out by Maharashtra ATS , city crime branch and central agencies , Patil said . . . Agencies . . Four coordinated low-intensity explosions struck the busy arterial Jangli Maharaj ( JM ) road in the heart of LOC_Event on Wednesday . The explosions occurred near LOC_Event , LOC_Event , a LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . Asked whether there could be a saffron terror angle to the incident , he said , All angles are being probed and it will not be proper to comment at this stage . . . He said the person injured in one of the blasts near LOC_Event was being treated for minor injuries . . . The injured person Dayanand Patil , who hails from a nearby village of Uruli Kanchan , had reportedly visited the spot opposite the Balgandharva Theatre , where a dharna agitation by India Against Corruption was in progress . . . After he left the place , the explosive , which had apparently been put in his carry bag , exploded on the way , police sources said . . . Unconfirmed reports said ammonium nitrate could have been the substance used in the blast triggered by small detonators and pencil cells . . . Police have also issued an advisory to IAC activists to wind up the dharna pandal for security reasons . . . Life in the city returned to normal late night as the blasts did not cause any large-scale damage . Police have appealed to people to ignore rumours and carry on daily routine without fear . Ahmedabad : Gujarat was put on high alert today following the low intensity serial bomb blasts in LOC_Event last night , police said . . . `` High alert is in force in the state and will remain till 15 August , the Independence Day , '' said Chittaranjan Singh , In-charge Director General of Police ( DGP ) , Gujarat . . . `` After that we will review the situation and take an appropriate decision , '' he added . . . LOC_Event blast . PTI . . The police in Gujarat has been asked to be on ` stand to ' mode to counter any untoward incident . The quick response teams ( QRTs ) and special operation groups ( SOGs ) across the state have been alerted . . . Patrolling at all sensitive and strategic locations has been intensified . Checking of suspected vehicles and those at entry and exits of cities like LOC_Event , Vadodara , Surat and Rajkot have been intensified , police officials said . . . `` Checking at hotels , guest houses , bus and railway station have also been intensified , '' said Joint Commissioner of Police ( JCP ) , Sector I , LOC_Event Ajay Tomar . . . `` We are taking as much precautions as we can to avert any untoward incident , '' he said . . . LOC_Event had experienced terror in July 2008 , when a series of 20 bomb blasts rocked it , killing 56 people and injuring more than 200 , within a span of 70 minutes . HYDERABAD : The twin blasts that rocked LOC_Event on Thursday evening was waiting to happen as the city police were repeatedly ignoring alerts by the Centre about impending strikes at the very place where scores lost their lives . In August last year , the Delhi Police , after busting a module of Indian Mujahideen -LRB- IM -RRB- , had warned LOC_Event of possible terror strikes by IM , but the police did not act on it , said senior home ministry sources . One of the arrested militant , called Maqbool , a resident of Nanded in Maharashtra , knew the topography of LOC_Event and had helped IM members in carrying out a recce of Dilsukhnagar , Begum Bazar and Abids in on a motorcycle . The information was passed to Hyderabad 's cops and they were told to beef up security , but the local cops brushed the information aside saying these were ` routine ' . Maqbool , who began his career along with a criminal called Azam Gauri of Warangal , told police about plans to strike in Hyderabad as it was a soft spot . ` We had information of militants staying at the LOC_Event and LOC_Event was definitely on their minds , ' said a senior official on condition of anonymity . Last December , following reports of possible Taliban attacks to avenge Ajmal Kasab 's execution in a Pune jail , the centre again warned the city police . However , police told reporters on November 30 that they had not received any intelligence inputs of a suspected terror attack in the city . Anurag Sharma , the Police Commissioner said that police were prepared to shield the city and said patrolling has been intensified as a part of precautionary measure . ` We have not got any such report from any intelligence agency . However , we remain alert to any such threat , ' he had said . A Pakistani Taliban group had warned of attacks in LOC_Event and LOC_Event to avenge Kasab 's death within a month . LOC_Event and LOC_Event were also on their target . Kasab , who was the lone surviving gunman of the 26/11 LOC_Event terror attacks , was hanged at Pune 's Yerwada Jail on Nov 21 . His execution along with Afzal Guru , is believed to have angered several terror groups who vowed to avenge their deaths . HYDERABAD : The initial investigations into the twin blasts in LOC_Event on Thursday evening point to the involvement of Indian Mujahideen in the terror strike , according to police sources . However , a clear picture would emerge only in the next couple of days after the analysis of the blasts site is completed , feel the cops probing the terror strike . The powerful IEDs that were used in the Thursday 's blast are similar to the ones that were used to carry out the blasts at Lumbini Park near Tank Bund and Gokul Chat in Koti in Hyderabad in 2007 in which 42 persons were killed . On Friday morning , a team of the National Investigation Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- descended on the site and began hunting for clues . Meanwhile , one more person succumbed to his injuries in Omni Hospital near LOC_Event , taking the number of dead in the blasts to 16 . Union home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde , who visited the blasts site and Care Hospital where some of the injured are admitted , said apart from the dead , 117 persons have been injured of which at least six are in a serious condition . ` Investigations are on and it is too early to fix responsibility , ' Shinde said before leaving for Delhi to attend the Parliament session . The home minister also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the dead in addition to what was granted by the state government . Meanwhile , chief minister N Kiran Kumar Reddy held a high-level meeting to discuss the blasts and the follow up steps that are needed to be taken in its aftermath . Contrary to the claim of the centre , the state has been maintaining that there was no specific alert with regard to the Dilsukhnagar blasts . Perhaps in reaction to the state 's assertion , Shinde said in the morning that the alert given by the centre to the states two days ago was a general one . TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu , who cut short his padayatra and visited the blasts site on Friday morning , blamed the state government . ` It is not right for the chief minister nor DGP V Dinesh Reddy to say that the alerts that were issued by the centre were of a routine nature , ' Naidu said . Meanwhile , BJP president Rajnath Singh was scheduled to land in LOC_Event and visit LOC_Event . He is also slated to address the media in the evening . The state-wide bandh that has been called for by the BJP was peaceful till the afternoon . Hyderabad : As the Hyderabad Police continues investigations in the serial blasts case , six people have been detained for questioning . The National Investigation Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- is conducting raids at various places in Uttar Pradesh , Bihar and Maharashtra , looking for alleged terror modules . While the Hyderabad Police has been cautious in not naming any particular group or individual , intelligence agencies say the role of the Indian Mujahideen ca n't be ruled out . View PhotosHyderabad , Feb 23 : Hours within twin bomb blasts in Hyderabad , police seem to have tracked some of the suspects who are allegedly seen in executing the terror plans . . . Closed Circuit Television ( CCTV ) camera footage , which were collected from the traffic signal near the blast site in LOC_Event , captured movements of five men who allegedly had planted explosives at the blast sites . . . According to police sources , a man seems to be in his early 30s was seen reaching near the site on a bi-cycle . A bag was hung on his cycle . The suspect reached the place ten minutes before the first blast at LOC_Event in front of Konark theatre at 6:38 pm . The second blast occurred few metres away at 7:01 pm . . . However , the face of the suspects are not clear in the footage , hence the police has sought help of experts , sources said . Meanwhile , the investigating group also announced reward between Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh to those who will provide any information regarding the suspects . . . Police officials earlier were quoted as saying , `` We are examining the images at the moment . The pictures are not too clear , but we should be able to get something out of it . '' . . Total 16 people were killed and over 100 people were injured in the twin blasts on Thursday , Feb 21 . A team of investigators reportedly would visit Uttar Pradesh , Bihar and Jharkhand soon to nab few other suspects . . . OneIndia News . . . Strictly from a terrorist 's point of view , LOC_Event was a very apt choice as a target . For those unfamiliar with LOC_Event 's geography , Dilsukhnagar is a busy area located in the south-east part of the city which further leads to the National Highway connecting to Vijayawada . As a result , the area is like mini-Mumbai , with a huge floating population coming in from localities outside Hyderabad to work in the city . People are perpetually in a hurry to get to work in the morning and to get back home in the evening . Several eateries do roaring business and whichever terror group decided to strike in LOC_Event , had done its homework well . There is a sprawling fruit market and several hostels in the vicinity and making a getaway would be easy . . . Contrast this with the preparedness of the police establishment . Police , in many other cities like Bangalore and Nanded , had received an ` Be alert ' input post the Afzal Guru hanging inside Tihar Jail , which given its very non-specific nature , was not taken with the seriousness it deserved . . . People gather at the blast site in LOC_Event . LOC_Event . . LOC_Event also has a history with bomb blasts . In November 2002 , a scooter bomb blast near the LOC_Event killed two people . The city had seen three strikes in 2007 - the LOC_Event blast in May that killed nine people ( five more persons were killed in the police firing that followed ) and the twin blasts at LOC_Event and LOC_Event in August that killed 42 people . Thursday evening terror attack shattered the peace LOC_Event has seen for nearly six years now . According to reports at the time of writing , 12 people were killed and 78 injured in the twin blasts . . . The twin blasts - the first one at 7:01 pm and the second one at 7:06 pm - took everyone by surprise . The terrorists had planted the bombs on bicycles , parked about 150 metres from each other and close to an eatery and a bus stop near cinema theatres to create maximum impact . Three hours after the blast , a senior police officer told Firstpost that they `` are groping in the dark '' . . . The situation immediately after the twin blasts was n't easy for the police . The commotion in the area meant it was a herculean task shifting the injured to the nearby hospitals . There was blood all over , people writhing in pain , crying . There were glass pieces and slippers strewn around and curious onlookers and the media teams did not make it any easier . With cellphones jammed , people were travelling to LOC_Event to find out about their near and dear ones . Politicians who thronged the blast site with their slogan-shouting supporters only meant the police became more engrossed in ensuring their security and not in keeping the area sterile . . . Police officials along with the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) now have to track the calls that would have been made in and out of LOC_Event prior to the blast . That sleeper cells have existed in pockets of LOC_Event as well as neighbouring districts like Nalgonda is a well-known fact and the sleuths will have to dig deep to find which of those connections were activated in the recent past . . . The police is also nervous about having lost significant forensic evidence in the melee that followed the blasts . This evidence will be critical in pointing to the kind of bomb that was assembled which would further help in identifying the terror group . . . Conspiracy theories are pointing to how the terrorists would have wanted to take advantage of the communal tension created as a result of the hate speeches delivered by MIM leader Akbaruddin Owaisi and VHP leader Pravin Togadia in the last two months and create more fissures . The challenge for LOC_Event now is to stand up united to defeat those designs of the terrorists . Two powerful explosions ripped through crowded areas at LOC_Event in the eastern part of the State capital on Thursday evening , killing 13 persons and injuring more than 83 . . . The first blast occurred at 6.50 p.m. on the citys busiest road that links it with Vijayawada ; as terrified people were scampering to safety , the second blast went off . . . Authorities say the explosions were caused by improvised explosive devices that could have been kept on bicycles or packed inside frames of bicycles . . . The twin blasts brought back painful memories of the August 25 , 2007 IED attacks in LOC_Event , in front of the State secretariat , and at LOC_Event in LOC_Event that killed 44 people . . . Incidentally , one of Thursdays blasts took place near a crowded foot over-bridge , where security forces defused an IED five years ago . The device was to go off along with the blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . Eyewitnesses at Anand Tiffin Centre , near the spot where the first blast took place , said someone began shouting about a bomb going off . Even as confused people watched , the IED detonated . Hyderabad : Vijay Kumar , 24 , was shopping for text books when two bombs ripped through the busy market in Hyderabad 's LOC_Event neighbourhood.Vijay was scheduled to take an exam soon that would qualify him as a sub inspector in the police . Vijay died in the terror attack.Two other students also died as bombs strapped to bicycles exploded next to a LOC_Event and a bus stand.The Prime Minister has vowed `` the guilty will not go unpunished '' for the `` dastardly attack . `` On Friday morning , police with cameras , gloves and plastic evidence bags used pointers to search through the debris . Officials from the National Investigation Agency and commandos of the National Security Guards arrived from New Delhi to help with the investigation . . NEW DELHI : As investigators trawl the devastated spots in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event for clues to Thursday 's twin blasts , a debate has begun in the home ministry over whether the terror attack could have been prevented . According to reports reaching here , there is no breakthrough yet for the investigators . ` We are still groping in the dark , ' a senior home ministry official familiar with the details of the probe said . However , there was relief after it turned out that some of the CCTV cameras in the ill-fated locality were functional at the time of the explosions on Thursday evening and , therefore , might be holding pointers . Senior sources disputed reports that the wires of CCTV cameras had been snapped four days ago . The MHA had fewer doubts on Friday about the involvement of Indian Mujahideen in the attack . The bombs carried the signature of IM . Both the devices were packed with ammonium nitrate and shrapnel with a timer mechanism : the staple of IM bomb-makers . The use of cycles to strap bombs has also been an IM trademark since November 2007 when they attacked courts in UP . Both bombs were designed to ensure that the impact of explosions was concentrated on one side : again a stock in trade for IM which has used boat-shaped devices earlier in order to maximize casualties . Faced with allegations of intelligence failure in Parliament , home minister Sushilkumar Shinde pointed out that the Centre has issued a series of alerts to authorities in LOC_Event about a possible terrorist reprisal against the hanging of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru . The first advisory went out on Saturday , alerting states against the threat of United Jehad Council to launch a fresh terror campaign against India to avenge Guru 's hanging . The message was amplified by Lashkar chief Hafiz Saeed . Although the first alert was general in nature , intelligence agencies , acting on basis of intercepts , refined it to caution that LOC_Event , along with Mumbai , Bangalore , Coimbatore and Hubli and certain places in Gujarat and Maharashtra , could be on the hit list of terrorists desperate to make good their threat . This message highlighting the threat to LOC_Event was sent on February 19 . The following day , Intelligence Bureau asked the states to step up vigil at places which were known to be on the radar of terrorists and had been recced . Centre 's concern , prompted by clear inputs according to Shinde , that a terrorist strike could be in the works manifested itself again on February 20 , when it repeated that LOC_Event could be among the likely targets along with other places . The same anxiety led the government to sound the same alert anew on Thursday morning just eight hours before the bombs went off in LOC_Event , killing at least 16 and maiming many more . LOC_Event fitted the bill , having been surveyed by an IM module as recently as last year . Delhi Police had on the basis of testimonies of two alleged IM terrorists , Syed Maqbool and Imran , told Andhra authorities that the locality was recceed as recently in July last year . Sources in the home ministry said that the emphasis on the sites which had already been reconnoitered reflected the assessment that the terrorists were under pressure to do something spectacular sooner than later and , hence , focussed on locales they were already familiar with . Centre refrained from blaming the state government , with Shinde saying in Rajya Sabha that the calm professionalism of AP cops was worth emulating . But many in his own ministry wondered whether cops could have prevented the carnage by upping their guard in response to a series of advisories . There was also puzzlement about the reasons why they failed to do so despite the fact that terrorists had targeted the same spot in 2007 . The last attempt failed only because the device planted by IM terrorists failed to go off , sparing the locality the devastation caused by the bombs the same module led by Riyaz Bhatkal had planted at Gokul Chat Bhandar and Lumbini Park . According to sources , one possible explanation could be the fatigue among cops over having to deal with the same kind of alerts over and over again . They said the counter-terror advisories issued in the wake of Guru 's hanging were not different from those which were sent after Mumbai attacker Ajmal Kasab was sent to the gallows in November . The alerts issued after Kasab 's execution had mentioned LOC_Event along with Bangalore and Coimbatore among the vulnerable spots . Speaking in Rajya Sabha , Shinde emphasized that the Centre had strong reasons to hoist the caution sign higher after February 19 and afterwards . If this was the case , the authorities clearly failed to impress the urgency upon the men at ground zero Sources said that the routine of having to respond to the same kind of cues repeatedly could not but lead to a dulling of response : a vulnerability which could be exploited by a terrorist group set on a particular target as has been the case with IM and LOC_Event . The predominantly Hindu locality with a history of communal tension has been consistently targeted by terrorists since 1999 when they unsuccessfully planted a bomb there . The terrorists returned again in 2002 when a bomb claimed two lives . Residents were lucky in 2007 when the bomb planted there did not go off , but the determined group had had their way on Thursday . . Two powerful explosions ripped through crowded areas at LOC_Event in the eastern part of the State capital on Thursday evening , killing 13 persons and injuring more than 83 . . . The first blast occurred at 6.50 p.m. on the citys busiest road that links it with Vijayawada ; as terrified people were scampering to safety , the second blast went off . . . Authorities say the explosions were caused by improvised explosive devices that could have been kept on bicycles or packed inside frames of bicycles . . . The twin blasts brought back painful memories of the August 25 , 2007 IED attacks in LOC_Event , in front of the State secretariat , and at LOC_Event in LOC_Event that killed 44 people . . . Incidentally , one of Thursdays blasts took place near a crowded foot over-bridge , where security forces defused an IED five years ago . The device was to go off along with the blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . Eyewitnesses at Anand Tiffin Centre , near the spot where the first blast took place , said someone began shouting about a bomb going off . Even as confused people watched , the IED detonated . Two bombs exploded in a crowded shopping district in the southern Indian city of LOC_Event , killing at least 12 people and wounding 50 more in the worst blasts in the country in more than a year , officials said . . . The explosions occurred about two minutes apart in the early evening outside a cinema and a bus station . Storefronts were shattered , motorcycles covered in debris , and food and plates from a roadside restaurant were scattered on the ground near a tangle of dead bodies . . . `` This is a dastardly attack , the guilty will not go unpunished , '' Manmohan Singh , the prime minister , said . He appealed to the public to remain calm . . . The bombs were attached to two bicycles in the Dilsukh Nagar district , Sushilkumar Shinde , home minister , said . The district is a shopping area near a residential neighbourhood . . . Eight people died in one explosion and three in the other , Shinde explained . . . Mahesh Kumar , a 21-year-old student , was heading home from a tutoring class when one of the bombs went off . . . `` I heard a huge sound and something hit me , I fell down , and somebody brought me to the hospital , '' said Kumar , who suffered shrapnel wounds . . . LOC_Event , which has a population of more than seven million , is a hub of India 's information technology industry and has a mixed population of Muslims and Hindus . . . The explosions were the first major bomb attack to hit India since a September 2011 blast outside the high court in New Delhi killed 13 people . The government has been heavily criticised for its failure to arrest the masterminds behind previous bombings . . . Home secretary RK Singh said officials from the National Investigation Agency and commandos of the National Security Guards were leaving Delhi for Hyderabad , the capital of Andhra Pradesh . . . Rana Banerji , a former security official , said India remained vulnerable to such attacks because there was poor co-ordination between the national government and the states . . . Police reforms were also moving very slowly and the quality of intelligence gathering was poor , he said . . . `` The concept of homeland security should be made effective , on a war footing , '' he said . . . India has been on a state of alert since Mohammed Afzal Guru , a Kashmiri , was executed in a Delhi jail nearly two weeks ago . Guru had been convicted of involvement in a 2001 attack on India 's parliament that left 14 people dead , including five gunmen . . . Many in Indian-ruled Kashmir believe Guru did not receive a fair trial , and the secrecy with which the execution was carried out fuelled anger in a region where anti-India sentiment runs deep . . . . Zeenews Bureau . . New Delhi : Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh has strongly condemned the bomb blasts that occurred in LOC_Event on Thursday evening . The Prime Ministers Office posted on Twitter , ` This is a dastardly attack , the guilty will not go unpunished ( sic ) ' . . . And added , ' I appeal to the public to remain calm and maintain peace . ' . . The Union Cabinet which was in a meeting when the blasts took place , was informed about the incident . . . ` The Prime Minister , Dr. Manmohan Singh , has strongly condemned the bomb blasts in LOC_Event . While expressing shock and grief over the loss of lives in the blasts , the Prime Minister has appealed to the public to remain calm and maintain peace , ' an official statement said . . . PM also announced Rs 2 lakh each to next of kin of those killed in LOC_Event blasts and Rs 50,000 each to those seriously injured , agencies reported . . . PM has also directed the central agencies to extend all possible help to the Andhra Pradesh state authorities in relief operations . . . Three bomb blasts rocked LOC_Event area of LOC_Event city near a bus stop . The blasts took place at three points - LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . The blasts happened simultaneously at around 7pm . . . The first blast occurred at 7:01 pm . The second blast happened at 7:06 pm . The blasts have been said to have been caused by tiffin bombs . One bomb has been found to be un exploded near a foot bridge . . . As per reports more than 50 people have have been injured in the blasts and have been rushed to the nearby hospital . Zeenews Bureau . . New Delhi : Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj slammed Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde on Friday and termed his statement on the Hyderabad blasts as routine . . . Routine statements are not enough , said Swaraj . Cornering the government in view of reports that the Centre had prior intelligence on the possibility of a terror strike , she said , The Centre ` s role doesn ` t end after warning states about terror threats . If the Centre had information , then why did it not do anything to prevent the blasts ? . . She said that the time is not to play blame games but to stand united . . . Earlier in the day , she said , `` We can be united only when our thoughts in fighting terror are similar . The Home Minister himself is saying that he gave the information . But , if there was information , the blame doubles . If there was information , what was the Centre , the state doing ? `` . . `` The nation needs to be united ; the political parties need to get united . The moment that happens , we will be capable of fighting terror , ' Swaraj said in the Lok Sabha . . . Asserting that terrorists have no religion , Sushma said : ` Terrorists only follow the code of terrorism . We need to be united against terrorism . ' . . She further said that this is not the moment to lay blame , but to work together to combat terrorism . . . Both houses of the house witnessed pandemonium today with the Opposition demanding answers from the government on the issue . New Delhi : Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen ( MIM ) chief and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi has strongly condemned BJP leader Sushma Swaraj for linking him and his brother MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi to the LOC_Event serial blasts case . in her speech in Parliament on Friday , Leader of Opposition Swaraj had linked Owaisi brothers with the twin blasts which claimed 16 lives . . . During her speech in Parliament , Swaraj had wondered if the twin blasts had to do with provocative speeches by Asaduddin Owaisi or his brother Akbaruddin Owaisi . `` Do these blasts have a connection with the provocative speeches made by an honourable member of this house ? '' she asked , initiating an impromptu discussion . . . Reacting to Swarajs remarks , the Hyderabad MP said the remarks were `` unfortunate '' and `` irresponsible '' . . . `` Swaraj can hate me , but she should have waited for the investigations to conclude before politically exploiting the issue . Most of those killed were from my constituency . Five of them were Muslims . Terror does not discriminate between religion , '' Hindustan Times has quoted Owaisi as saying . . . Slamming Swaraj , Owaisi said , `` One does n't accept such irresponsible statements from the Leader of the Opposition and one of the contenders for the PM 's post at a time when the last rites of the martyrs have not yet been performed . '' . . He described the bombings as an `` attack on the nation '' . He further said despite differences with the Congress government , his party was `` extending all cooperation '' to maintain calm and peace . . . googletag.display ( ` div-gpt-ad-1415181470682-6 ' ) ; . . googletag.display ( ` div-gpt-ad-1415181470682-6 ' ) ; . . . Security was stepped up in the national capital today evening in the wake of the serial blasts in LOC_Event . . . A senior Delhi Police official said the personnel of the force have been alerted and they were keeping a tight vigil on the city . . . We are always on alert . There is nothing to panic , the official said . . . High alert in Mumbai . . A high alert has been sounded across Maharashtra in the wake of the blasts in LOC_Event this evening , Home Minister R R Patil said . . . I have spoken to senior police officials and directed them to beef up security , Mr. Patil said . . . The Home Minister reviewed the security situation in the State this evening , official sources said . . . Police have been asked to keep a vigil on suspicious activity and persons in view of the blasts . . . Security stepped up in Bangalore . . Police today sounded a high alert in parts of Karnataka , including IT hub of the Bangalore City in the wake of serial bomb blasts that rocked LOC_Event . . . Security has been stepped up in sensitive areas , Railway and Bus stations , police said . HYDERABAD/MUMBAI : Two days after twin blasts rocked the city , the Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday claimed to have got ` vital clues ' to crack the case soon with the needle of suspicion zeroing in on banned terror outfit Indian Mujahideen . ` We have already gathered vital clues in the case . We are confident we will crack the case soon , ' state home minister P Sabita Indra Reddy said after a high-level review meeting chaired by chief minister N Kiran Kumar Reddy . Thursday 's serial blasts left 16 dead and over 117 injured . The modus operandi adopted by the perpetrators like ammonium nitrate and splinters-laden aluminium containers fitted to bicycles used in the blasts pointed the needle of suspicion towards Indian Mujahideen . Reddy said 15 special teams of Andhra Pradesh police , each having 10-15 personnel , have been constituted to probe the case and bring the culprits to justice . Director General of National Investigation Agency S C Sinha discussed with state police officials the ongoing investigation . Amid reports that some CCTV cameras at the blast sites were not functioning , the state home minister said 3500 closed-circuit cameras would be installed at vital locations under Hyderabad and Cyberabad police commissionerates to improve vigil . Meanwhile , Abdul Wasey Mirza , a 23-year-old unemployed youth who fell victim to terror attack for a second time on Thursday in the Dilsukhnagar blasts , has been questioned by police which clarified he is not being treated as a suspect . ` As part of the investigations we only recorded his statement as a witness along with others , ' Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anurag Sharma said . ` Nothing like that , ' Sharma said when asked whether the police suspected Mirza 's involvement in the attack after a media report suggested the fact that he survived both 2007 Mecca Masjid and Dilsukhnagar blasts had aroused suspicion about his possible role in the explosions . Looking for clues to track down the perpetrators , Cyberabad and Hyderabad police have questioned some local youths but made it clear that nobody has been detained so far . ` Media reports that we have detained some persons are totally baseless . We only called some people for questioning , which is a normal investigating procedure , ' a top police official said . Investigators said they were following some leads from CCTV footages , including of a man seen coming to the blast site on a bicycle with a bag . Mobile call records from the area at the time of the explosions were also being examined . Sleuths of the National Investigation Agency have obtained details about persons lodged in the Chanchalguda jail here with suspected terror links and some of them were also questioned , informed sources said . In Mumbai on a private visit , senior BJP leader L K Advani squarely blamed Pakistan for the LOC_Event blasts accusing it of launching a ` proxy war ' against India . ` There is no doubt that there is the hand of the neighbouring country in Hyderabad blasts . The neighbouring country has not been successful in waging a war against India in the last few decades , so it has resorted to a proxy war , ' he told reporters . The BJP parliamentary party leader demanded that Pakistan abide by its commitment made during the meeting between the then Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and President Pervez Musharraf that it would not allow its soil to be used for terror acts against India . New Delhi : France has condemned ` in the strongest terms ' the twin bombing in LOC_Event and said India can count on Paris ` ` steadfast support and cooperation ' in the fight against terrorism . . . French President Francois Hollande , who had come to India last week , ` most firmly condemns the attacks ' that struck the people of LOC_Event , said a statement . . . Conveying his heartfelt condolences to the victims ` families on behalf of France , Hollande expressed ` his complete solidarity with the Indian people and the government in the fight against terrorism , for which they can count on France ` s steadfast support and cooperation ' , the statement said on Friday . . . The twin blasts in LOC_Event left 16 people dead and over 100 injured . . . In another statement , the official spokesperson of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs said on Friday that their Consul General in Bangalore had gone immediately to the site of the explosions ` to express our solidarity with India and ensure the safety of the French community ' . . . It said that both countries had affirmed during last week ` s visit to India by President Hollande that ` no compromise is possible with terrorists ' . . . ` Our two countries are determined to fight this threat together . France is ready to offer all cooperation that India may require , ' the statement said . The US has strongly condemned the `` cowardly attack '' in LOC_Event that claimed many lives , saying that it stood with India in battling the `` scourge of terrorism '' and offered its assistance in probing the incident . WASHINGTON : UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has joined the international community in condemning the terrorist attack in LOC_Event that killed more than a dozen people and wounded scores of others . . . `` The Secretary-General strongly condemns the indiscriminate attacks against civilians which occurred in the Indian city of LOC_Event , '' said a statement issued by the office of the UN Secretary General yesterday . . . `` He extends his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government and people of India , '' the statement said . Director General of Police V. Dinesh Reddy has said that improvised explosive devices -LRB- IEDs -RRB- with nitro compound were used in the explosions that killed 13 persons and left 83 injured . . . He did not hazard a guess whether RDX was used in the bombs but asserted that they were timed as the two powerful explosions took place within a gap of three minutes and were only hundred yards apart . . . Mr. Reddy , who returned from New Delhi only on Thursday after attending a meeting convened by the Central government to discuss the naxalite situation in various affected states , drove straight from the airport to the scene of the twin blasts at 7.10 p.m. . . Talking to media persons later , Mr. Reddy said the first blast took place at 6.58 p.m. near LOC_Event and the second three minutes later near LOC_Event . The bombs were placed in rexine bags and hung to bicycles at both the places . The locations were selected strategically to inflict maximum damage as they were crowded areas . . . No signs of more bombs were available after sanitising the entire area . A massive search operation in and around the locations was taken up in fear of more blasts . . . Mr. Reddy said that it was too premature to suspect the role of any particular group in the blasts . He denied picking up anybody or coming to know of any similarities with earlier explosions at Lumbini Park or Gokul Chat in 2007 . . . A high alert was sounded across the State and the Centre despatched rapid action force personnel to deal with the situation . A post-energy blast team that specialises in tackling this kind of blasts , also left New Delhi for LOC_Event . The investigation was being handed over to the National Investigation Agency , he said . . . The DGP appealed to the people not to panic as the police were fully geared to meet the situation . He hoped there would be a breakthrough in investigation soon . He also said the Union Home Secretary R.K. Singh and IB chief Asif Ibrahim were in constant touch with him . It was the third time in last decade that Dilsukhnagar has been targeted by terrorists . The bustling residential-commercial centre had earlier witnessed a bomb blast at LOC_Event in 2002 , which claimed two lives . . . Five years later , Hyderabad experienced twin blasts at LOC_Event in Kothi and Lumbini Park in front of the Secretariat . The terrorists had also planted a bomb at the foot over bridge in Dilsukhnagar , but it was detected and defused in time . And now again by a quirk of fate , five years later , the same area is rocked by blasts . . . Why do the terror planners keep returning to Dilsukhnagar ? Is it because of the high concentration of crowds so that maximum damage could be inflicted ? . . Located almost on the south-eastern tip of the city , Dilsukhnagar ranks high among the densely populated and busy corridors of Hyderabad . Given the numerous middle class colonies in the vicinity , the central Dilsukhnagar area around the bus stop teems with crowds throughout the day , peaking during the evenings . . . The bus stop here connects to almost all the parts of the city and thus has a large fleet of buses making a halt here to pick up and drop commuters . In the 1980s and 90s , Dilsukhnagar was the most preferred location by the government employees for setting up home and even now , sundown sees a large administrative staff getting down from buses here to return home . . . The location is the last pick up point for passengers heading for Vijayawada , Guntur , Tenali and parts of the coastal region , which adds to the crowd presence here . Also , the surroundings of the bus stop here have metamorphosed into a beehive of commercial activity with road side kiosks to well furnished showrooms and a couple of film theatres . . . Also , the bomb attack site is close to the popular Sai Baba temple which draws devotees in large numbers , particularly on Thursday evening when aarti is held around the sunset . . . With little or no mechanism to control and streamline the movement of crowds along or across the roads , chaotic conditions prevail particularly between 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. . . At the same time , the area does not get adequate attention from security agencies . The focus that is paid to other parts of the main city or even the emerging IT corridors on peripheries is not accorded here . The Hyderabad Police had information that two suspected Indian Mujahideen members , arrested by the Delhi Police Special Cell four months ago in connection with last Augusts LOC_Event serial blasts , had revealed that they surveyed Dilsukhnagar . . . The police have in the final report submitted before a city court mentioned that suspects Sayed Maqbool and Imran Khan had in July last year conducted reconnaissance of Dilsukhnagar and Begam Bazar in Hyderabad to identify a target . This , they purportedly revealed , was done at the behest of Riyaz Bhatkal , alleged to be the IMs founder member . . . The court is yet to take cognisance of the final report in which charges under Section 120B -LRB- criminal conspiracy -RRB- of the Indian Penal Code , the Explosive Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities -LRB- Prevention -RRB- Act were filed against the two , along with three others . Maqbool was arrested at Shaheennagar in Hyderabad last October after the Special Cell arrested Imran and his accomplices Asad Khan , Sayed Feroz and Landge Irfan Mustafa for their alleged role in the LOC_Event blasts . . . However , following the arrests the police had then told the media that two other suspected members of the outfit , Ahmed and Shakir , were at large . Their whereabouts is still not known . After Maqbools arrest , the police intimated their Hyderabad counterparts about his activities there . . . A police team from Hyderabad had come here to join the interrogation , said a senior police officer . Maqbool purportedly told the interrogators that he had conducted the reconnaissance in Hyderabad and had moved there to a rented accommodation about three months before he was arrested . . . Maqbool was allegedly roped into the module by Imran , who he met in jail while serving sentence in a Nizamabad murder case . According to the police , Imran introduced him to Riyaz and his brother Iqbal Bhatkal . . . The Delhi Police said Maqbool knew how to configure bombs and taught the same to the other members of the module that allegedly carried out Punes serial blasts to avenge the killing of suspected IM member Qateel Siddique in Punes Yerwada Jail by two other jail inmates on June 8 last year . . . The police further said Maqbool had learnt bomb-making from one Azam Ghori of Warangal , Andhra Pradesh , who was killed in a police encounter in 2000 . . . They were arrested four months ago by Delhi Police Special Cell in connection with last Augusts LOC_Event blasts . Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde made a flash visit to Hyderabad on Friday morning and saw for himself the damage caused by the twin bomb blasts in LOC_Event , the thickly populated area here , accompanied by Governor E. S. L. Narasimhan , Chief Minister N. Kiran Kumar Reddy and top officials of the National Investigation Agency -LRB- NIA -RRB- , including its Director-General S.C. Sinha . . . Huge crowds that thronged the site jostled to break the police cordon to get a closer look of the leaders as they made an on-the-spot study of the dastardly bomb attacks . . . Mr Shinde later said an all-inclusive investigation into the serial bomb blasts was in progress and the persons who had masterminded the crime , would be identified and caught soon . We will leave no stone unturned to achieve immediate results on this front , he told reporters at Lakeview Guesthouse . . . The Home Minister flew in here by a special aircraft from Delhi and drove straight to the blood-stained blast sites which resembled a war-ravaged zone . A visibly upset Mr Shinde , who earlier had served as Andhra Pradesh Governor , also visited CARE Hospital at Nampally where most of the injured persons are being treated . He spoke with some of them , trying to get a first-hand account of how it all happened . . . No area-specific alerts . . He declined to divulge anything further about the incident on the ground that Parliament was in session . He said it was too early to blame any organisation or outfit , including the Indian Mujahideen , for the blasts . . . Mr Shinde categorically said his Ministry did not issue any area-specific alert to the Andhra Pradesh Government three to four days ago with a warning that incidents such as bomb blasts would occur , as being talked of . What was issued was a general alert to all the States , he said . . . He did not agree with the contention that the blasts were a result of intelligence failure . He did not confirm when asked if any source of phone-tapping was identified in this connection as alleged . . . He said the AP Government would bear the entire medical expenditure for treatment of the injured , besides the ex gratia already announced by it on ThursdayRs 6 lakh for the families of each of those killed and Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh to each of the injured persons . . . The blasts , he stated , claimed 14 lives so far , while the condition of six of the 119 injured persons was critical . The number of casualties could go up , he indicated . . . We will leave no stone unturned to achieve immediate results . Activists of CPI Chittoor town unit , led by its secretary Nagaraj , staged a dharna near Gandhi statue on LOC_Event on Friday condemning the bomb blasts on a busy road in LOC_Event on Thursday . Two mohalla cricketing sides had stepped into the field and were rolling out the mat when two unfamiliar , clean-shaven men carrying cricket kits walked towards them . For a moment , it appeared two cricket enthusiasts were looking to play on the LOC_Event in LOC_Event , near a lifeline bypass connecting north and south Kashmir . The two men then dropped the kits , removed their jackets and reached into the bags . Out came from the kits AK-47 guns and from the jackets ammunition . By the time the guns fell silent after 30 minutes , five CRPF jawans and the two men lay dead and 10 persons , including three young players , were injured . It was a fidayeen attack , the first in LOC_Event in over three years and executed in a manner that makes every normal feature of civilian life a potential threat to the security forces . When the gunfire began , a CRPF reserve party was killing time on the lawns , several jawans playing cards . The premises were considered one of the safest in Kashmir because the school is sandwiched between a CRPF camp and police residential quarters . No child or teacher was in the school because of a shutdown called by separatists to seek the body of Afzal Guru , the Parliament attack convict who was hanged in New Delhi on February 16 . Several factors that swirled around the fidayeen attack today appeared to suggest Afzals execution has made Kashmir a deeper quagmire for the security forces . The CRPF reserve squad was awaiting deployment to quell the citys stone-throwing protesters , whose ranks have swelled afresh after the hanging of Afzal . The attack that began at 10.45 am came weeks after top militant groups vowed to avenge the execution of Afzal . The situation on the ground appeared so inflamed that some protesters threw stones at the security forces at LOC_Event , the site of todays fidayeen attack , even when the operation against the militants was in progress . Another target of the stones was a CRPF vehicle ferrying back from hospital jawans who donated blood for those injured in the attack . The CRPF opened fire and killed a youth , inflaming passions further . One of the players on the field said the militants lobbed grenades and fired indiscriminately at the CRPF jawans . The scenes that unfolded resembled signature television footage from urban conflict zones uniformed forces taking position , falling to the ground , rolling over , firing on the trot and screaming into what looked like mobile phones . The bodies of some jawans lay on the ground . The telltale sign of the end to the battle came when jawans carried out the bodies of the militants , one wearing a red outfit . All of us knelt and feared our end has come . The firing and explosions left us breathless for some time . For just 10 seconds or so the firing stopped and some of us ran to the fence , climbed it and crossed to the other side . I now realise it was madness because we could have been shot while climbing , he said , requesting not to be named . On record , the players all in the early twenties refused to acknowledge that they saw the militants , probably for fear of being targeted by the security forces . I just wanted to save myself and my friends on the ground . I did not see the militants entering the play ground . I lost my senses because of the firing , said Obaid , one of the injured youths . Mudassir Wani , who was also injured , said he did not realise he was injured possibly by splinters when he began running out of the field . We were busy laying the mat on the pitch and blasts and gunfire rang out . We fled the spot . Some people came to my rescue and shifted me to the hospital after I saw blood oozing from my foot , he said . New Delhi blamed militants based in Pakistan . The homegrown Hizb-ul Mujahideen later claimed responsibility , though police suspect the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Toiba may be involved . A caller identifying himself as Baleeg-ud-din , the spokesperson for Hizb , told a local news agency its men had carried out the attack . A police officer claimed both fidayeen were Pakistanis . To be doubly sure , we are also verifying the reports whether one of the militants was Hilal Molvi ( a local militant commander ) . However , preliminary investigations reveal that both were Pakistanis , he said . Chief minister Omar Abdullah interrupted proceedings in the Assembly in Jammu to inform the House of the attack . This morning , two fidayeen attacked a CRPF camp at LOC_Event in which five CRPF men were martyred . Two militants were also killed , Omar said . The Valleys officiating police chief , Abdul Gani Mir , said the target of todays attack was peace , referring to the sharp decline in militant attacks in the state in recent years . Hundreds of police and paramilitary personnel rushed to the area to seal it and carry out search operations as the forces suspected that more militants might be hiding . The last fidayeen attack in LOC_Event was on January 6 , 2010 , when militants struck at the city centre . One policeman was killed and nine others were injured . The Tamil Nadu government today announced a cash relief of Rs 5 lakh to the family of a CRPF jawan , who was killed in a suicide attack in LOC_Event . A CRPF jawan injured during the exchange with the terrorists in LOC_Event . PTI . Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa condoled the death of Perumal , who hails from Thummanayakkanpatti in Madurai district . In a statement here , she expressed grief over the yesterday 's incident and sympathised with the family members of the martyred soldier . I have directed that all government assistance be rendered in bringing back the body of Perumal , the Chief Minister said , adding , she had deputed Sellur K Raju , Minister for Cooperation , to console the family in person . She also instructed the Madurai District Collector to pay last respects to the deceased . Five CRPF jawans were killed after militants carried out a suicide attack on their post in the valley yesterday . It was a rare public outburst , on national television , and it seemed to bring Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah rushing to the LOC_Event airport just in time to lay a wreath before the bodies of five paramilitary men killed in Wednesday 's LOC_Event terror attack were flown out . Jawans in uniform questioned the CM 's absence at a ceremony organised by the Central Reserve Police Force or CRPF this morning to honour its men killed by two terrorists who ambushed their camp in LOC_Event on Wednesday . The men were angry and said they felt orphaned that Mr Abdullah did not turn up . In fact , no politician did . Where is the Chief Minister ? We risk our lives to protect our country . At least the chief minister should have been present , a jawan said . His colleague , equally distraught , said , The Chief Minister visits families of civilians when they die in street clashes , adding , Nobody cares about our life . The five CRPF men killed and eight injured in the fidayeen or suicide attack on the LOC_Event camp were part of a 36-man emergency reserve , deployed to deal with agitations and protests . 24 of them had only non-lethal weapons like lathis , tear gas shells , rubber bullets and pepper grenades when they were attacked . The two terrorists , who sneaked into an open ground where some children were playing a cricket match with off-duty soldiers , stood without cover , took out semi-automatic guns and opened fire , also lobbing many grenades . Grief-stricken CRPF jawans said today that their colleagues had no chance in an unequal battle . They give us lathis to fight terrorists . We lost five men yesterday as they were unable to defend themselves , a jawan said . Senior CRPF officers say this is standard operating procedure - one-third of a CRPF company is armed , one - third carries riot gear and one-third has lathis or batons.It was the men who had access to heavy weapons who eventually shot dead the two fidayeen in LOC_Event . The BJP has accused the government of not being concerned about jawans dying . After the deadly fidayeen assault on the CRPF camp in LOC_Event , that left 5 CRPF troops dead , the diplomatic tensions between India and Pakistan has yet again spilled over onto the sporting arena . The Indian government has refused permission for a home-and-away bilateral hockey series between the two countries on security grounds . A top source in Hockey India today said that they have received a communication from the Ministry of External Affairs asking it call off the bilateral series . The bilateral series between India and Pakistan has been cancelled as the Ministry of External Affairs did not give us permission . The MEA had sent a fax to us yesterday , asking us not to host Pakistan or travel to the country for the series , the source said . The Pakistan 's hockey team was scheduled to tour India next month for five Test matches , which would have revived the bilateral hockey ties between the two traditional rivals in nearly seven years . Pakistan was expected to play matches in the cities of Ranchi , Lucknow , Delhi , Mohali and Jalandhar between April 5-15 . After Pakistan 's visit , the Indian team was scheduled to pay a return visit and play five matches in Lahore , Faisalabad , Karachi and Sialkot from April 23 . Pakistan and India last played a bilateral hockey series in 2006 -- three matches in each country . Pakistan won three and lost one while the remaining two were drawn . The cancellation of the hockey rubber came close on the heels of an abandoned bilateral snooker series between India and Pakistan earlier this month following Government 's objection . Pakistan today rejected India 's contention that Pakistani militants were behind a terrorist attack in LOC_Event that killed five paramilitary personnel , saying such knee-jerk reactions could undermine efforts to normalise bilateral relations . Reacting to Indian Home Secretary RK Singh 's comments that prime facie evidence suggests that the militants who attacked the members of the Central Reserve Police Force were from across the border , they were probably from Pakistan , the Foreign Office said it strongly rejects the remarks . Pakistan also rejects the statement made by Defence Minister AK Antony in the Rajya Sabha accusing the Special Services Group of Pakistan Army of beheading two Indian soldiers on the Line of Control on January 8 , said the statement issued by Foreign Office spokesman Moazzam Khan . We feel that this trend of making irresponsible statements and knee-jerk reactions by senior Indian government functionaries has the potential of undermining the efforts made by both sides to normalise relations between the two countries , the statement said . Pakistan was itself a victim of terrorism and had made immense sacrifices in its efforts against this menace , the statement said . Islamabad condemns such actions of terrorism in the strongest possible terms and calls on the Indian government to carry out a thorough investigation into the incident before levelling such accusations which are counterproductive and serve no purpose , it said . Pakistan , the statement said , remained committed to discussing and resolving all outstanding issues with India through a meaningful dialogue . Militants disguised as cricketers killed five paramilitary troopers after sneaking into a CRPF camp adjoining a school in LOC_Event area of LOC_Event today . As many as 18 people including 15 CRPF jawans and three civilians were also injured in the attack , the first major strike in the city in three years . Home Secretary Singh said two militants involved in the attack were killed and security forces were searching for others . Ties between India and Pakistan were hit earlier this year after several violations of the ceasefire along the LoC . Indian Army officials said two soldiers were beheaded by Pakistani forces in January . At least 16 people , including eight policemen , were injured when an incendiary bomb placed in a motorbike exploded near the LOC_Event buzzing with activity ahead of the May five Assembly polls . The policemen were on security duty as part of the bandobast arrangements for the LOC_Event in view of the polls when the explosion ripped through the crowded area damaging two vans , a Karnataka State Reserve Police vehicle and a motorbike , top police officials said . Due to the blast , 16 people are injured -- eight policemen on duty and eight civilians . Nobody is critically injured . All are being treated at hospital , State DGP Lalrokhuma Pachau told reporters at the spot . A National Investigative Agency team has arrived here , he said , adding , forensic experts would also be joining them . As of now , we do not know what is the material of the bomb blast . We will know after examination , he said . The blast occurred around 10.30 AM when the LOC_Event is normally brimming with party workers and candidates . Today is the last day for filing of nominations . City Police Commissioner Raghavendra Auradkar , citing preliminary investigation , said , It is an explosion , adding a motorbike with an incendiary bomb was used . The bike was planted in the midst of cars , he said . At this stage , I ca n't say what kind of explosion it was , the police chief . Police said explosive and incendiary materials were used . According to them , Police personnel were injured as they rushed out of their vehicle parked nearby the party office on seeing the vehicles going up in flames . Two of the injured were college students who were returning home after tution , Shivamurthy , an eye witness , said , adding BJP workers shifted some of the injured to hospital . Initial reports had said the explosion could have been caused by an LPG cylinder fitted to a car . According to eye witnesses , a loud noise was heard and some vehicles went up in flames , sending the people to flee in panic . Police have cordoned off the area . With the state going to Assembly polls on May five , the BJP office located in a residential locality is abuzz with activity for the past few weeks . The LOC_Event is overflowing with party workers since the past few weeks with state and national leaders frequenting it . Today is the last date for filing of nominations and more rush was expected . City Police Commissioner Raghavendra Auradkar , citing preliminary investigation , said , It is an explosion , adding a motorbike with an incendiary bomb was used . The state BJP said the police had confirmed that the bomb was placed in the bike bearing Tamil Nadu registration number . It said it had happened when party state president , Chief Minister and national leaders could have been present considering the Assembly polls . Describing the dastardly blast as an attempt to weaken the party 's morale , BJP said that its workers need not fear or be cowed down by it . According to them , police personnel were injured as they rushed out of their vehicle parked nearby the party office on seeing the vehicles going up in flames . Two of the injured were college students who were returning home after tuition , Shivamurthy , an eye witness , said , adding BJP workers shifted some injured to hospital . The Ministry of Home Affairs ( MHA ) on Wednesday confirmed that the latest LOC_Event blast was a terror attack . Union Home Secretary R.K. Singh confirmed that it was indeed a terror attack , but refrained from naming any organisation as the investigation was still on.Earlier , Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde said , We are enquiring the matter and will let you know about the details soon.At least 16 people were injured on Wednesday when an incendiary bomb placed in a motorbike exploded near the Karnataka BJP city office buzzing with activity ahead of the May 5 Assembly polls . The MHA sources said that the LOC_Event , near which the blast took place in the morning , was bustling with till Tuesday when ticket distribution process concluded . However , since the process had ended , there was not much crowd at the party office on Wednesday . Sources also said that a temple located about 100 metre from the blast site , could also be the target . The bombers wanted higher casualties so they chose the spot carefully , a source said . The incident comes a day before the third anniversary of the blast outside the LOC_Event . Sources said it was too early to name any suspect , but confirmed that improvised explosive device ( IED ) was used in the explosion . State Home Minister R Ashok said the bomb blast in the city this morning was an act of terrorism , resulting in injury to 16 people , including eight policemen . A bomb blast took place just a few metres away from the LOC_Event here at 10.45 am on Wednesday . Thirteen people were injured in the incident , including eight policemen . No death occurred . The condition of two people were serious . The injured were admitted to hospital . Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde spoke on the LOC_Event blast in Kolkata on Wednesday . He said he had already constituted a probe into the LOC_Event blast . 2.13 pm . . The Congress-led UPA distanced itself from Shakeel Ahmed 's remark that the blast would help the BJP 's cause in the upcoming Karnataka polls . 2.06 pm . . An NSG team is set to leave for LOC_Event . 1.54 pm . . Another blast was reported by the local media from LOC_Event . Police , however , denied such reports . 1.47 pm . . NIA and sleuths were probing the blast site . LOC_Event has been put on high alert . 1.45 pm . . Bangalore Police was alerted about possible disruptive activities a couple of days ago . On Tuesday , LOC_Event hosted an IPL match and the security was expected to be high with elections around the corner . 1.40 am . . BJP spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi condemned the blast . 1.38 pm . . The Ind-Suzuki motorcycle in which the explosive ( 500 grams ) was placed had a Tamil Nadu registration number and was parked there since yesterday , sources said . The explosion was carried out with a timer , it was learnt . The two-wheeler was a stolen one , reports said . 1.36 pm . . Senior BJP leader Vankaiah Naidu condemned the incident and hoped that the Centre and the government of Karnataka probed the incident in proper coordination . He said they would wait for the outcome of the probe . Earlier BJP President Rajanth Singh said the BJP never politicised terror activities . He said he had spoken to Shettar and ensured that everything was okay . 1.23 pm . . All people injured in the blast are out of danger , say reports . 1.15 pm . . Reports confirmed that IED was used to trigger the LOC_Event blast in LOC_Event on Wednesday morning . 1.10 pm . . R Ashoka , Karnataka deputy chief minister and home minister said the BJP will not be deterred by such cowardly acts . He said it was clearly an act of terror . A picture of the motorcycle which was ripped apart in the explosion near LOC_Event . April 17 , 2013 1.05 pm . . A picture of the motorcycle which was ripped apart in the explosion near LOC_Event . A female victim admitted in the hospital said she fell down after hearing a massive explosion and seeing fire . I do n't remember anything after that , she said . Meanwhile , officials said none of the vehicles that were present at that LOC_Event blast site had a LPG kit . Karnataka Police DGP Lalrokhuma Pachau said the motorcycle and a van were damaged the most in the blast . 12.51 pm . . Shakeel Ahmed 's tweet was termed insensitive by the Twitterati . Some criticised Ahmed for politicising the blast . 12.48 pm . . IED was used in the blast , said TV news sources . It was a low-intensity blast , added reports . 12.44 pm . . Home Secretary RPN Singh appealed for peace and calm . Police said the nature of the injuries in the blast were not very serious and the injured were undergoing treatment at KC Hospital . Singh said the Karnataka Police will be given all possible help in probing the incident . 12.33 pm . . Police were suspecting whether the blast targetted at the LOC_Event . The entire area has been cordoned off . The toll of injured touches 16 . 12.23 pm . . The injured in the blast included a CRPF jawan and a 18-year-old PU student who was on her way to the tutorial . They were being treated at KC Hospital in Malleshwaram . Two teenage girls were among the injured . 12.13 pm . . An NIA team was rushed to the blast spot . Although initially it was said that the NIA 's assistance would not be required to probe the case . A forensic team had also reached the spot to probe the incident . The bomb squad was also expected to arrive at the spot . 12.09 pm . . BJP spokesperson Ashwatnarayana said they had come out in the street after hearing a huge blast . We had first thought it to be a transformer blast , he said . Thanks to good old trees on Bevinamarada Raste the damage is minimal , the BJP man told OneIndia News . If the blast near LOC_Event is a terror attack , it will certainly help the BJP politically on the eve of election . BJP leader Balbir Punj had said earlier that he hoped that it was not a terror attack . 11.45 am . . Commissioner of Police Raghavendra Auradkar said the explosion was caused by a motorcycle bomb . The police said the explosives were placed on the motorcycle . The police , however , said there was no need to seek NIA help in the probe at the moment . 11.30 am . . Karnataka Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar said it was too early to make any statement on whether it was a terror attack . He said the officials were investigatiing it thoroughly . Two mohalla cricketing sides had stepped into the field and were rolling out the mat when two unfamiliar , clean-shaven men carrying cricket kits walked towards them . For a moment , it appeared two cricket enthusiasts were looking to play on the LOC_Event ground in LOC_Event , near a lifeline bypass connecting north and south Kashmir . The two men then dropped the kits , removed their jackets and reached into the bags . Out came from the kits AK-47 guns and from the jackets ammunition . By the time the guns fell silent after 30 minutes , five CRPF jawans and the two men lay dead and 10 persons , including three young players , were injured . It was a fidayeen attack , the first in LOC_Event in over three years and executed in a manner that makes every normal feature of civilian life a potential threat to the security forces . When the gunfire began , a CRPF reserve party was killing time on the lawns , several jawans playing cards . The premises were considered one of the safest in Kashmir because the school is sandwiched between a CRPF camp and police residential quarters . No child or teacher was in the school because of a shutdown called by separatists to seek the body of Afzal Guru , the Parliament attack convict who was hanged in New Delhi on February 16 . Several factors that swirled around the fidayeen attack today appeared to suggest Afzals execution has made Kashmir a deeper quagmire for the security forces . The CRPF reserve squad was awaiting deployment to quell the citys stone-throwing protesters , whose ranks have swelled afresh after the hanging of Afzal . The attack that began at 10.45 am came weeks after top militant groups vowed to avenge the execution of Afzal . The situation on the ground appeared so inflamed that some protesters threw stones at the security forces at LOC_Event , the site of todays fidayeen attack , even when the operation against the militants was in progress . Another target of the stones was a CRPF vehicle ferrying back from hospital jawans who donated blood for those injured in the attack . The CRPF opened fire and killed a youth , inflaming passions further . One of the players on the field said the militants lobbed grenades and fired indiscriminately at the CRPF jawans . The scenes that unfolded resembled signature television footage from urban conflict zones uniformed forces taking position , falling to the ground , rolling over , firing on the trot and screaming into what looked like mobile phones . The bodies of some jawans lay on the ground . The telltale sign of the end to the battle came when jawans carried out the bodies of the militants , one wearing a red outfit . All of us knelt and feared our end has come . The firing and explosions left us breathless for some time . For just 10 seconds or so the firing stopped and some of us ran to the fence , climbed it and crossed to the other side . I now realise it was madness because we could have been shot while climbing , he said , requesting not to be named . On record , the players all in the early twenties refused to acknowledge that they saw the militants , probably for fear of being targeted by the security forces . I just wanted to save myself and my friends on the ground . I did not see the militants entering the play ground . I lost my senses because of the firing , said Obaid , one of the injured youths . Mudassir Wani , who was also injured , said he did not realise he was injured possibly by splinters when he began running out of the field . We were busy laying the mat on the pitch and blasts and gunfire rang out . We fled the spot . Some people came to my rescue and shifted me to the hospital after I saw blood oozing from my foot , he said . New Delhi blamed militants based in Pakistan . The homegrown Hizb-ul Mujahideen later claimed responsibility , though police suspect the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Toiba may be involved . A caller identifying himself as Baleeg-ud-din , the spokesperson for Hizb , told a local news agency its men had carried out the attack . A police officer claimed both fidayeen were Pakistanis . To be doubly sure , we are also verifying the reports whether one of the militants was Hilal Molvi ( a local militant commander ) . However , preliminary investigations reveal that both were Pakistanis , he said . Chief minister Omar Abdullah interrupted proceedings in the Assembly in Jammu to inform the House of the attack . This morning , two fidayeen attacked a CRPF camp at LOC_Event in which five CRPF men were martyred . Two militants were also killed , Omar said . The Valleys officiating police chief , Abdul Gani Mir , said the target of todays attack was peace , referring to the sharp decline in militant attacks in the state in recent years . Hundreds of police and paramilitary personnel rushed to the area to seal it and carry out search operations as the forces suspected that more militants might be hiding . The last fidayeen attack in LOC_Event was on January 6 , 2010 , when militants struck at the city centre . One policeman was killed and nine others were injured . The bullet-riddled bodies of Chhattisgarh Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel and his son Dinesh , who were kidnapped by Maoists , were on Sunday found along with those of eight others in Jiram valley in Bastar . In the most lethal attack so far in LOC_Event , Maoists on Saturday hit a Congress party convoy in LOC_Event , killing top party leader Mahendra Karma , the man who started the anti-Naxal campaign called Salwa Judum , as police counted 17 dead , many among them well-known state Congress leaders , and several injured . Chhattisgarh Congress chief Nandkumar Patel 's body recovered from LOC_Event . Nandkumar 's son body also found near site of ambush . Former Union minister and ex-Madhya Pradesh CM Vidya Charan Shukla was seriously injured with three bullet wounds . TV images showed Shukla on the ground , his face blood-splattered and huge blotches of blood on his abdomen . He was first taken to a hospital in Jagdalpur and later flown to Raipur where doctors described his condition as very critical . Local leaders said party vice-president Rahul Gandhi was expected to reach Raipur late Saturday night before Shukla is shifted to Delhi by an air ambulance . State Congress President chief Nand Kumar Patel and his son Dinesh went missing from the spot after the attack and were suspected to have been abducted by the Maoists , sources said . They were travelling with Sukma Congress legislator Kawasai Lakma , who was injured in the attack . Nand Kumar and Dinesh jumped out of the car and were not seen thereafter . The group of Congress leaders and party workers were ambushed at LOC_Event valley around 5.30 pm as they were driving out of the rebel stronghold of LOC_Event in LOC_Event district towards Jagdalpur after attending a rally as part of Parivartan Yatra to kick off party 's campaign for the assembly polls . Police said that some cars leading the convoy hit land mines and then the entire convoy came under a hail of gunfire as more than 150 combatants ringed them . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh reviewed the situation with Congress President Sonia Gandhi and other senior leaders . The PM called up chief minister Raman Singh to offer para-military reinforcements . The CM had returned to Raipur , cancelling his Vikas Yatra , to hold an emergency meeting of the state cabinet . Karmaji is no more . We do n't have any more details ' , a close relative told TOI over telephone while police officers and government officials tried to get details on learning about the massacre . Sources said Karma was dragged out of his vehicle along with his PSO and shot dead . A local television correspondent Naresh Mishra , who was at the remote ambush spot , said he saw bullet ridden bodies of Karma , former Congress legislator Uday Mudaliyar and more than 10 other bodies . It took security reinforcements several hours to reach the spot as they had to walk for fear that land mines had been planted on the road leading to the area . It standard procedure for Maoists to plant mines in and around such spot of attacks to target security forces rushing for rescue and relief operations . Former MLA and prominent tribal leader Phulo Devi Netam werer among the wounded . The attack on opposition Congress leaders came a day before the bandh called by the Maoists to protest against the May 17 killings of eight tribals , including three children , by the security forces during an anti-Naxalite operation . Mahendra Karma , who had spearheaded the controversial anti-Naxalite movement Salwa Judum since 2005 , was on Maoist hit-list and survived several attempts on his life . Few months ago , Karma escaped unhurt when Maoists triggered a powerful landmine blast targeting his vehicle . Meanwhile , opposition Congress blamed the state government for the incident alleging that it did not provide adequate security to the Parivartan Yatra , despite having specific information that the Maoists could target mainstream political parties and its leaders ' political campaigns ahead of the next assembly elections . Former CM Ajit Jogi called for a statewide bandh after meeting the governor along with party leaders . Central leadership of Congress desisted from pointing fingers , but there were indications that the restraint may not hold . Emerging from meeting with the PM , Sonia said that CM Raman Singh who had promised to get back to the PM was yet to do so . Party general secretary in - charge of the state , B K Hariprasad , said that the Congress leaders were not provided ' enough security . Police was well aware about a possible Maoist threat to both Vikas Yatra by chief minister Raman Singh and Parivartan Yatra by the Congress leaders . Yet it did not provide adequate security to the opposition leaders , senior Congress leader and former minister Satyanarayan Sharma said . Around 250 naxalites are believed to have carried out the killings of 27 people including Congress leaders in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district . The naxalites , suspected to be members of the Dhand Karineya Special Zonal Committee ( DKSZC ) , after triggering a blast , stopped the convoy and started shouting the names of people on their hit list which included former Home Minister . . of the state Mahendra Karma , architect of Salwa Judam , a people 's movement against naxalism , official sources said . Karma presented himself before the Naxalites with a plea to leave others but he was hit hard with the butt of the gun and later shot dead , the sources said . Karma was an ethnic adivasi leader from the undivided LOC_Event region . Over a period of time , his brother and 20 other close relatives have been gunned down by Maoists . The Congress leaders were warned about the possibility of an attack as this is the period of Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign ' ( TCOC ) of the Maoists , the sources said . The TCOC begins from April and carries on till early monsoon in July and the thick LOC_Event provide a good cover for the Maoists to hit and scoot . The then Union Home Minister P Chidambaram had proposed to carry out counter offensive in the entire LOC_Event region but had to call off because of opposition from his own party leaders including Digvijay Singh and some members of the Sonia Gandhi-led National Advisory Council . Pandu ' , who has taken over as the Divisional Commander ' of DKSZC after Ganesh Uike was removed is believed to be behind the attack , the sources said . The initial firing on the convoy was through country-made weapons and later the Maoists used automatic weapons . The Pradesh Congress Committee Chief Nand Kumar Patel and his son -- Dinesh -- were dragged to the dense bushes and shot in their head while senior Congress leader V C Shukla remained unattended for quite sometime before he was taken to hospital . . ... contd . RAIPUR : Senior Congress leader Mahendra Karma has been killed when a group of Naxalites ambushed a convoy carrying senior Congress leaders at LOC_Event section on Jagdalpur-Sukma highway in Bastar district of Chhattisgarh . Preliminary reports said a local Congress leader Gopi Madwani was also killed . Senior Congress leader and former Union minister VC Shukla , Sukma 's Congress legislator Kawasai Lakma were among the critically injured . Reports from the spot said Shukla was taken to a hospital at Jagdalpur , the divisional headquarters of Bastar , by road . His condition is stated to be critical . State Congress president Nandkumar Patel and his newly-married son Dinesh Patel went missing after the incident and it is suspected that they were abducted . While the state government neither confirmed nor denied reports about heavy causalities of senior Congress leaders in the attack , close family members of Karma confirmed his death but said we do n't have any more details ' . Karmaji is no more . We do n't have any more details ' , Karma 's close family members told TOI over telephone . However , police and other officials neither confirmed nor denied reports about heavy causalities in the Maoist ambush . Naresh Mishra , a correspondent of state private television channel IBC 24 , reported from the spot that he saw bullet ridden bodies of Mahendra Karma and former legislator Uday Mudaliyar and about 10 others at the spot of ambush . The Congress leaders were on their way to Keshloor from Sukma after attending a Parivartan Yatra meeting at Sukma when a group of about 150 heavily-armed Maoists started indiscriminate firing and triggered a powerful blast targeting their convoy . We are waiting for confirmation about these reports . I do n't have any details ' , state Congress media cell in charge Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said . An official spokesman said chief minister Raman Singh has cancelled his Vikas Yatra and is returning to the state capital where he is expected to hold a high level meeting to take stock of the situation . Unconfirmed reports said Karma , who was prominently known as Bastar tiger , was initially kidnapped for identification and then they pumped 20 bullets after beating him on his head with the gun 's butt . There was a cross firing between Karma 's guards and Naxalites but when the guards ran out of bullets , Karma surrendered along with few other Congress leaders . Former MLA Konta , Kawasi Lakhma is said to be safe and admitted to the hospital . He got injured during the firing when the glass of his vehicle 's windowpane broke down . Karma , who had spearheaded the controversial anti-Naxalite movement Salwa Judum which began in June 2005 , was already on the Maoist hit list and he had survived several attempts on his life . It is said that more than 150 Naxalites were there firing indiscriminately . Maoists are expected to issue a formal statement late in the night as they normally do after every such major attack or abductions . Striking in a big way , heavily-armed Maoists today shot dead senior Congress leader Mahendra Karma and injured former Union minister V C Shukla who is said to be critical having having been shot three times in an ambush in a dense forest in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district . The Maoists also kidnapped PCC chief Nand Kumar Patel and his son Dinesh after attacking a convoy of Congress leaders in LOC_Event , police said . A former Congress MLA from Rajnandgaon Udya Mudaliyar was also shot dead and prominent woman tribal leader Phulo Devi Netam from Bastar , was wounded by the Maoists who attacked the convoy at around 1730 hours when they were returning from the party 's Parivartan ' rally . There were unconfirmed reports of some policemen and other Congress activists being killed in the attack . Karma , a former Home Minister who was a guiding force behind Salwa Judum ' ( anti-Naxal operation by vigilante groups ) , was surrounded by about 100 to 150 Maoists who peppered his body with bullets . The Maoists had put up road blocks by felling trees before triggering a landmine blast that hit one of the vehicles in the convoy and thereafter opening fire indiscriminately , police sources said . After carrying out the attack , the ultras set nearby trees on fire . The Personal Security Officers of the Congress leaders returned the fire but soon ran out of bullets . The Maoist attack took place in a dense forest near National Highway 202 connecting Chattisgarh with Naxal-hit Bhadrachalam district in adjacent Andhra Pradesh . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has called Chief Minister Raman Singh and asked him about what help he needs to deal with the situation . PM has also tasked the NSA to ascertain what kind of assistance the state needs to deal with the attack and its aftermath . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh appeals to attackers to release at the earliest all those who may have been abducted in LOC_Event . ... contd . Chief Minister Raman Singh reached Rajnandgaon on Tuesday afternoon and met the bereaved families of former MLA late Udai Mudliar and his assistant late Allanoor , expressing heartfelt condolences to them . Udai was my family friend . His sudden demise is a shocker for me said Dr Singh while consoling the family of late Udai Mudliar . Singh expressed his grief saying that this family has lost a son and he has lost his brother-like friend in the ferocious act of naxalites . Later , Chief Minister also visited the house of late Allanoor and expressed condolences to his family . Expressing sympathy to the grieve-stricken families , he said that State Government will always be there and stand as a support for them through this difficult moment , and also the time ahead . Meanwhile , Housing and Environment Minister Rajesh Munat and MP Madhusudan Yadav were also present with Chief Minister . Dr Singh said that senior leaders of Congress along with Udai Mudliar , Allanoor , several party-workers , police personnel and even the civilians were brutally killed in the audacious naxal attack in LOC_Event area of Bastar district on May 25 . It was an extremely condemnable and cowardly act of Naxalites . State Government will provide every possible aid to the families of the deceased and the martyrs in the incident , and those found guilty in the investigation of the case will be subjected to strict legal action , asserted Chief Minister Dr Raman Singh . . Jagdalpur ( Chhattisgarh ) , May 27 : The Congress convoy ambushed on Saturday had no security cover unlike the previous two days , survivors said on a day the National Investigation Agency began probing possible security lapses by the central forces or the states BJP government . There was no road-opening party ahead of us ; no anti-landmine vehicle leading the convoy ; no police team tailing it . There were no police even at the Parivartan Yatra rally in Sukma , Ajay Singh , aide of slain Congress leader Mahendra Karma , said in Faraspal village where the Salwa Judum founder was cremated today . Karma and state party chief Nand Kumar Patel were among 27 Congress leaders , workers and personal security officers ( PSOs ) who died as the convoy , travelling from Sukma towards Jagdalpur , was waylaid . We had protection in Bijapur on day one ( May 23 ) of the Yatra ; we had cover on day two ( May 24 ) in Jagdalpur . It is strange that we had none on day three , Singh said . Two other survivors corroborated him . It appears an intelligence input about an increased presence of Maoists in Geeram valley , the site of the massacre , was ignored . Many senior Congress leaders have suggested a conspiracy behind the attack that has wiped out virtually the entire top rung of the partys state leadership . Jagdalpur superintendent of police Mayank Shrivastav , though , claimed a road-opening party had preceded the convoy on its way to Sukma earlier in the day , and later again as the motorcade headed towards Jagdalpur . Shrivastav suggested the patrol passed the attack site 45 minutes before the convoy and the Maoists laid the ambush in a very short time . He admitted there was no anti-landmine vehicle or police escort apart from the 35 police PSOs of the party leaders . Patel puzzle . . One other question being asked in Congress circles is : why did the Maoists kill state unit chief Patel and his son Dinesh who , unlike Karma , had no personal enmity with the rebels ? Especially when they let off local MLA Kawasi Lakhma , who was in the same car ? . . Im sure the National Investigation Agency team ( which arrived in Chhattisgarh today ) will probe this angle . It smacks of a political conspiracy , state Congress media chief Shailesh Trivedi said . Patel would have been a front-runner for the chief ministers post if the Congress had won the upcoming state polls . Dinesh , married two years ago , looked set to play a major role in the Youth Congress . Father and son had worked very hard to make the Yatra a success , Singh said . We are confused why the Maoists killed Patel and his son . Dinesh was not even a full-time politician , Singh said . He was extremely polite and had a spotless character . Route rumour . . Singh and state Congress leaders including the injured Lakhma chorused their denial of a buzz , started apparently by the administration , about a last-minute change to the convoys route . We went there and came back according to a pre-decided plan , Singh said . To my knowledge , the route was not changed , said Lakhma . There was a change to the Yatras schedule , though , but it was conveyed to the police , Trivedi said . The rallies in Sukma and Jagdalpur were slated for May 24 and 25 , respectively , but the dates were switched because former chief minister Ajit Jogi could come to Sukma only on May 25 . There was no change to the Yatras route on May 25 ; the state government is propagating this rumour to cover its own lapses , Trivedi said . Security lapses could have taken place , junior Union home minister R.P.N. Singh said in Delhi while announcing the NIA probe . ( In case of ) any lapse on the part of central forces or the state government , we have to take action . A week after the deadly Maoist ambush of a convoy of cars carrying top leaders of the Congress in LOC_Event , an initial forensic report is out . It pieces together the two hours of horror on the evening of Saturday last on the narrow highway 221 in the state . Shinde calls for joint operations in all Naxal areas . . Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde who is Chhattisgarh has said that Saturday 's attack on a Congress rally was bigger than an act of terrorism ' and said that thehe was in favour of joint operations in all Naxal affected areas . Whatever the ideology may be , we can not agree to an ideology where one human being kills another human being , he said . The Home Minister who returned from the United states on Thursday added that they would work together with Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh in a judicial inquiry ordered by the state . The Minister added that the NIA had also begun its probe into the attack . Shinde also refused to get drawn into debates about the role of intelligence agencies in preventing the attack , saying that he was not sure at this stage if there was an intelligence failure or not . It looks like there have been some lapses , but until the inquiry is completed , it is too early to say , he said . He also refused to comment on the number of Naxals believed to have been killed in the attack . I do n't want to reveal the number of Naxals killed now . . this is n't the time for that , he said . 2.45 pm : Maoist cadres stopping civilian vehicles near attack site . . Maoists cadres have checked civilian vehicles crossing the state highway connecting Dantewada and LOC_Event in Chhattisgarh around 1pm , Times Now reported . The spot is 50 km away from the ambush site where a Congress convoy was attacked by the Maoists last Saturday . Security forces have been rushed to the spot where the checking took place . 2.43 pm Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde visits Nand Kumar Patel 's family . . Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde today visited the family of slain Chhattisgarh Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel at his native Nadeli village in Raigarh district and assured them of justice and his full support . Shinde , accompanied by senior officials , landed at Jindal airport in Raigarh around 11 am from Delhi and directly went to the village by helicopter . 1.55 pm : VC Shukla 's condition showing signs of improvement . . Former Union Minister and Congress leader VC Shukla , who was injured in the LOC_Event Maoist attack , has shown further signs of improvement , but he is still critical and remains in ICU . He has shown further signs of improvement during the last 24 hours . He is still in ICU and remains critical . A team of multi-specialist doctors is taking care of him , AK Dubey , Medical Superintendent of Medanta Hospital told reporters on Friday . 11.03 am : Sushilkumar Shinde reaches Chhattisgarh . . Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde who arrived in India on Wednesday has reached LOC_Event , six days after the attack that wiped out most of the Congress state leadership . Shinde justified his decision to stay in the US despite the attack , because he had an eye appointment and said that he had prior permission ' to extend his visit . The Home Minister will meet with the state Congress leadership , and will also be briefed on the latest developments in the NIA investigation . 9.29 am : What 's the point in calling Naxals terrorists ? . . Congress Tribal Affairs Minister KC Deo has said that calling Naxals terrorists ' will not serve any purpose . Calling them terrorists ... is it going to help or improve the situation ? You can use different terms but ultimately you have to get at the root of the problem ... we have to preempt such happenings in the future and also take the path of development and empower the people , Deo told NDTV . His comments are almost in direct contrast to that of Minister of Rural Affairs Minister Jairam Ramesh who said that the Naxals were terrorists . 8.47 am : 27-30 kg explosives used in ambush . . An initial forensic report on Saturday 's LOC_Event ambush reportedly states that about 27-30 kg of explosive - ammonium nitrate - was used in the attack by Maoists which killed 24 people including two Senior Congress leaders Mahendra Karma and Nand Kumar Patel , NDTV reported . The report also says that explosives were triggered using a command wire mechanism ' . Meanwhile Zee News in its own report , said that aelectric detonator was used along with a command wire in the attack . Updates for 30 May end . . 6.57 pm : Stayed in US for doctor 's appointment , says Shinde . . Shinde , seeking to explain his extended leave of absence in the United States despite the Naxal attack in LOC_Event that wiped out almost the whole State party leadership , said that he extended his stay in the US because he had an appointment with a world famous doctor of the eye ' . I took prior permission to stay in US beyond 23 May , he said . There was no need for me to issue a statement because I was already in touch with my officials , he added in response to a question . However he stated that he would go to LOC_Event on Friday , and repeated the Congress stance that the attack was in fact an attack on democracy . 5.46 pm : Salwa Judum was not our idea , says Cong . . Bhakta Charan Das of the Congress party in LOC_Event has said that contrary to popular belief , Congress was not in support of the controversial Salwa Judum programme . Salwa Judum was never our idea , it was the idea of Raman Singh , said Das in comments to CNN-IBN . . He also called for the resignation of the Chief Minister . The Congress has been upping calls for the resignation of Raman Singh and his government over the brutal Naxal attack which literally wiped out the top state leadership of the party . The Naxals later said in a statement that Karma was the main target of the attack because of Salwa Judum . We never supported salwa judum . We had our differences over salwa judum with Karma , Das was quoted as saying . Tribal affairs minister KC Deo had also criticised the initiative earlier / . . 10.50 am : Indian Air Force upping surveillance in Naxal areas . . The Indian Air Force is upgrading its surveillance capacity in Maoist-hit areas after the recent failure of unmanned aerial vehicles ( UAVs ) operating in LOC_Event , reported DNA . According to the report , . . UAVs operating in the area failed to detect the movements of more than 200 Maoists who ambushed a Congress convoy on Saturday , an IAF officer said . At least 27 people were killed and 30 injured in the attack . So , the IAF is now planning to acquire foliage penetrating radars to deploy in Maoist-hit areas under thick forest cover . Technology is the key to solving this ( Maoist ) problem ... the IAF is in the process of acquiring sophisticated equipment for better surveillance capability in thick forests , Air Chief Marshal NAK Browne said here on Wednesday . More here . . 9.00 am : Cong to boycott CM 's all-party meet . . Raman Singh , the Chief Minister of LOC_Event has called for an all-party meeting today to discuss the Bastar bloodbath which killed 24 people including senior Congress leaders . However Congress is set to boycott the meeting sticking to their demand for Raman Singh 's resignation for the security lapse . The Chhatisgarh government has also appointed a one-man commission under High Court judge Justice Prashant Mishra for a judicial enquiry into the attack . A special session of the LOC_Event Assembly has also been called on 3 June to discuss the Naxal issue . End of updates for 29 May . . 1.30 pm : Raman Singh had prior knowledge about Naxal attack , alleges MP Congress . . Madhya Pradesh Congress on Wednesday criticised LOC_Event Chief Minister Raman Singh over the Maoist attack on Congress ' Parivartan Yatra in Sukma district on Saturday , which left 27 people , including senior party leaders , dead . Maoists killed Congress leaders by taking their names . The Chief Minister had prior knowledge about the Naxal attack , but failed to provide security to the Parivartan Yatra , Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee president Kantilal Bhuria alleged while talking to PTI . Read more here . 11.40 am : Justice Mishra to probe attack , submit report in 3 months . . Justice Prashant Mishra a sitting judge of the LOC_Event High Court has been appointed to probe the attack on a Congress envoy last Saturday , media reports said . Mishra , will submit his report within three months . 10.30 am : Multiple bullet wounds , over 78 stab wounds on Karma . . The report adds that Karma suffered 78 stab wounds , wounds made with a blunt object and also bullet wounds . For Divesh Patel , son of Nandkumar Patel , the post mortem reports say that he had an axe injury on his head and that lead to his death . But there are also bullet wounds found on his body . Nandkumar Patel was also stabbed multiple times and there were also bullet wounds . Previously PTI reported quoting Congress leader Daulat Rohra , who had survived the attack as saying that when Karma identified himself to the Maoists , they took him aside and shot him dead , pumping in about 50 rounds . The post mortem report of Mahender Karma and Nandkumar Patel have been submitted to the LOC_Event police . The post mortem reports add he bled to death . Updates for 28 May end . . 4 . 20 pm : Congress demands resignation of Raman Singh . . The Congress party on Tuesday demanded that LOC_Event Chief Minister Raman Singh resign immediately following a failure on his government 's security lapse leading to the death of 27 people on Saturday . 4 . 00 pm : Let NIA investigate , no one will be spared , says RPN Singh . . Minister of State for Home RPN Singh on Tuesday conceded that there was a security lapse but assured that action would be taken against those responsible irrespective of whether they were central , state or police officals . Speaking exclusively to CNN-IBN , Singh said the attack was extremely unfortunate . There was a security lapse , the Standard Operating Procedures which were issued were not followed by the state police ... anyone found guilty will not be spared . . . Singh also said it is unfortunate that the NIA was brought under suspicion by the BJP . It is unfortunate that our offices are being dismantled by BJP . . they ( NIA ) have a good record in solving cases . . just because Malegaon was investigated by NIA to put the blame on them is unfortunate , the minister said . 2 . 00 pm : Shinde should return to India immediately : BJP . . BJP has demanded that Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde , who is on an official visit to the United States , return to the country immediately . Speaking to the media , BJP spokesperson Prakash Javadekar said , Home Minister Shinde should take the first flight available and return to the country . . . 12.10 pm : Slight improvement in former union minister VC Shukla 's condition . . In a medical bulletin issued by the Vedanta Hospital , Dr Naresh Trehan said that former union minister VC Shukla 's condition continued to be critical though he has shown slight improvements . He seems to have showed some improvement with respect to kidney function etc. . However , given his age and the trauma that he has gone through , we have to be very cautious , said Trehan . He also expressed hope that Shukla will show some definite improvements in next 24 hours . 11.39 am : We will win war against naxals , says Jairam Ramesh . . Rural development Minister Jairam Ramesh has slammed against intellectuals who romanticise maoists ' . In an exclusive interview with CNN-IBN , Ramesh said that there was nothing ideological about Maoists anymore , as they were extortionists and criminals . He added that there was no possibility of initiating a dialogue with them as they did not believe in Indian democracy . We will win the war against Naxalism . We will persevere we will bring political devt , we will use force , he said . In the interview Ramesh added that the rest of the country needed to take an example from Andhra Pradesh and raise Greyhound commandos in every state , backed up by job opportunities and welfare . . 10.33 am : With 24 dead how can Maoists say they were only targeting a few people ? asks RPN Singh . . MoS ( Home ) RPN Singh hit out at the Maoist statement claiming responsibility for Saturday 's attack on a Congress rally saying , 24 are dead and they are trying to say they were targeting only a few people . . The Maoists in their statement named Mahendra Kumar , Nand Kumar Patel and VC Shukla as the main targets of the attack and said they regret the killing of innocents and lower Congress functionaries . . Singh added that the government had set up an NIA team , adding that the Home Secretary is already in Raipur for a security review . . RPN Singh says I m nt going to respond to letter written by Maoists . Bravo ! Y shd d Govt of India react to what thugs fm Bharat write . . T S Sudhir ( @Iamtssudhir ) May 28 , 2013 . . 9.47 am : Maoists officially claim responsibility for LOC_Event attack . . The Maoists have officially claimed responsibility for Saturday 's attack on a Congress rally that killed 27 people including architect of the controversial Salwa Judum movement , Mahendra Karma . In a four-page media statement , Gudsa Usendi , spokesperson for the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee , CPI ( Maoist ) , said that Karma was the prime target of the attack along with state Congress leader Nand Kumar Patel . Nand Kumar Patel was suppressing people . It was in his tenure in the Centre when paramilitary forces were deployed in the Bastar area . Mahendra Karma and his family have been exploiting tribals for long . They were into land grabbing and committed atrocities on tribals . Mahendra Karma had such a good relationship with CM Raman Singh , that the media used to call him the 16th minister of his cabinet , the statement said . Karma was the prime target along with Nand Kumar Patel and VC Shukla but we regret killing of innocents and lower Congress functionaries , it added . In the note , the rebels have also put forward seven key demands . They want Operation Green Hunt to end and paramilitary forces to be sent back from Dandakaranya . They also want revolutionaries and innocent tribals to be released from jail unconditionally . End of updates for 27 May . . 7.25 pm : LOC_Event Chief Minister Raman Singh . . The massive attack on democracy is not just scary , it is also shameful . NIA is co-investigating the case . The NIA , the LOC_Event Policeinquiryand the judicialinquirywill run parallel to each other . Bastar is bigger than the state of Kerala . Thousands of kilometres of highways are there . The difference between police stations are over 100 kilometers . It is not easy to secure such a huge region . The Centre and state must act together . Despite the incident , the morale of the forces are high and they are going to interior places . The total action plan must be jointly made by the state and the Centre . We will keep the fight on fordemocracy , Singh told Times Now . 6:05 pm : Additional Director General of Police says adequate security provided . . Additional Director Mukesh Gupta says that they had provided adequate security for the Congress rally which was attacked on 25 May that resulted in the deaths of many senior party leaders . Security was provided to the Congress convoy , he told CNN-IBN in an exclusive interview . The senior police official said that except for a couple of incidents in the past they had not witnessed such an attempt on a political convoy before . Gupta also denied that there was a leak of information from within the security personnel which allowed the Maoists to plan the attack . The movement is so well known and there are moles everywhere , he said . He promised to have a proper inquiry and if someone was found to not have done their duty properly , then action would be taken . 4 . 10 pm : Congress says MP bandh a success . . The day-long Madhya Pradesh shutdown call given by the Congress to protest Saturdays Naxal attack on its leaders in LOC_Event was a success , the party said . Barring few incidents of police action against the Congress workers , the bandh was successful throughout the state , state Congress media department chairman Manak Agrawal said . The shutdown was from morning to 2pm in the afternoon . Read more here . 3 . 35 pm : CPI-Maoist 's Sudarshan behind attack ? . . A central member of the CPI-Maoist Katakam Sudarshan , could be behind the attack on a Congress convoy on Saturday , CNN-IBN reported . Sources have told the channel that the Intelligence Bureau had sent a generic alert that Sudarshan was active in the area and could be planning something . But since the warning was not specific , the forces at the ground could not take effective measures to counter it . 3 . 20 pm : Nand Kumar Patel , son honoured with state funeral . . The final rites of Chhattisgarh Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel and his son Dinesh , who were killed in the Naxal attack on Saturday , were performed with state honours at their native village Nandeli in Raigarh district on day . Patel 's younger son Umesh performed the rites , in the presence of Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi , Chief Minister Raman Singh and a host of other leaders . Read more here . 3.12 pm : NIA team reach attack site at Jagdalpur . . A special team from the National Investigation Agency have now arrived in Jagdalpur , the scene of the attack on a Congress convoy that killed 27 people , including two state leaders . The NIA has taken over the investigation . Congress leader and former LOC_Event chief minister Ajit Jogi on Monday said a full investigation will be conducted on whether the attack was pre-planned and whether someone else was involved . NIA will investigate this Naxal attack , whether it was pre-planned , whether someone else was involved or not we will get to know , he said . Jogi said he was n't aware of convoy routes having been changed and said he heard of them from reports . Do n't know much about routes being changed as I was traveling by a helicopter , but I heard in news reports . . . Party leadership is shocked , the people who were with us in the growth of LOC_Event are gone . . . Meanwhile a special MHA team will go to LOC_Event tomorrow to review strategy . 1 . 43 pm : 2,000 paramilitary jawans sent to LOC_Event . . The Centre has rushed 2,000 additional paramilitary force personnel to LOC_Event in the wake of the Naxal attack on Congress leaders that claimed 27 lives , including that of PCC chief Nand Kumar Patel . The decision was taken following a request from the LOC_Event government which sought more forces to provide security to political leaders as well as to engage in anti-Naxal operations , official sources said today , adding that the units will be in the state in a day or two . Read more here . 1 . 35 pm : Home Ministry sends advisory to all Naxal hit states . . Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday issued an advisory to all nine Naxal affected states asking them to revamp security to political workers and ensure that their activities are not affected . 1 . 30 pm : Major security lapses at Jagdalpur . . There were major security lapses at Jagdalpur , Chhattisgarh , where Naxalites ambushed a Congress party convoy on Saturday evening . Here are some of the lapses : . . 1 Maoist build-up on the darba plateau went undetected . . 2 State highway 211 from Sukma to Jagdalpur should have been sanitised . . 3 There were no sweeps to disrupt Maoist build-ups . . 4 All Congress leaders in Sukma travelled together ; presenting a plum target . . 5 There were no means of getting in reinforcements . 1 . 06 pm : NIA will probe all angles , says Ajit Jogi . . Congress leader and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Ajit Jogi on Monday said a full investigation will be conducted on whether the attack was pre-planned and whether someone else was involved . NIA will investigate this Naxal attack , whether it was pre-planned , whether someone else was involved or not we will get to know , he said . Jogi said he was n't aware of convoy routes having been changed and said he heard of them from reports . Do n't know much about routes being changed as I was traveling by a helicopter , but I heard in news reports . . . Party leadership is shocked , the people who were with us in the growth of Chattisgarh are gone . . . 12 . 51 pm : No plans to move-in Army , says AK Antony . . Amid reports of the Army moving in to assist security forces in Naxal hit areas of Chhattisgarh , Defence Minister AK Antony has denied any such proposal . There is no proposal on Army joining anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh , but we will extend all support to State and para-military forces , he said . 12:15 pm : Doctors say Shukla 's health on ventilator , treatment to take long . . Naresh Trehan of the Medanta Hospital where Congress leader VC Shukla is admitted has said that the politician leader 's condition is still critical . He is critical and will remain so for a few days.But he is stable and we hope he will be fine , he said . Shukla had three gunshot wounds , two in the chest and one in the abdomen , the doctor said . He said that Shukla was conscious but was on the ventilator as he continued to battle for his life . Given his age , his recovery could take a long time , the doctor said . 11 . 25 am : Sonia expected to call meeting over Naxal attack . . Congress Chief Sonia Gandhi is expected to call a meeting later today to take stock of the investigations into the Naxal attack on Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh . Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi arrived at Chhattisgarh late Saturday night while Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress Chief Sonia Gandhi arrived early Sunday morning . 11 . 20 am : VC Shukla still critical . . Doctors at Medanta Hosital in Gurgaon have said that the condition of senior Congress leader VC Shukla continues to be critical . He is recovering at the Gurgaon hospital where he was operated upon on Sunday . Shukla suffered three bullet injuries , with a bullet scraping through his lung and liver causing serious damage . Doctors have also said that that his condition is stable , but he is still not out of danger . A team of specialised doctors regularly check on Shukla and a detailed update of his health is expected at around 12 noon today . 11 . 00 am : Congress calls for bandh in Madhya Pradesh . . Congress workers on Monday attempted to enforce a complete bandh in Madhya Pardesh and Chhattisgarh following the attack on a Congress rally on Saturday . Youth Congress workers were seen trying to convince shops in Bhopal to shut down in support . On Sunday , the Congress party in Madhya Pradesh called for a bandh , condemning the attack . We strongly condemn the dastardly act that killed number of our former colleagues . As Chhattisgarh was a part of Madhya Pradesh before the division , therefore gave a bandh call tomorrow in protest , state Congress president Kantilal Bhuria and Leader of Opposition , Ajay Singh told reporters on Sunday . Congress calls for statewide bandh in Madhya Pradesh , party workers force some shops to shutdown in Bhopal twitter.com/ANI_news/statu . . ANI ( @ANI_news ) May 27 , 2013 . . 10 . 30 am : Action will be taken against whoever is responsible , says RPN Singh . . Minister of State Home RPN Singh on Monday said there were security lapses in the Chhattisgarh attack on Saturday that killed 27 people . The minister also said that action will be taken against whoever is responsible . There have been security lapses . . I have asked the NIA to probe . The buck has to stop somewhere . Punishment has to be meted out to someone , whoever is responsible . . at the centre level or state level , he said . Meanwhile , Home Secretary RK Singh on Monday said that a NIA team will be leaving for Darba Ghat to investigate the attack . 9 . 45 am : Mastermind behind Congress attack identified ? . . A Maoist leader Gagannam also known as Ramesh has been reportedly identified as the mastermind ' of the attack , Times Now reported . The Sukma attack at a Congress rally left 27 people dead . 9 . 10 am : Slain Chhattisgarh Cong chiefs son seeks CBI probe . . Umesh Patel , the son of Chhattisgarh Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel who was killed in Saturdays Naxal attack , has sought CBI probe into the incident suspecting political conspiracy behind the tragedy . Talking with mediapersons at his native village Nandeli , Umesh said the fact that Naxals were asking for senior party leaders by calling out their names indicated that there was some political conspiracy behind the killing of his father and brother . Read more here . 9 . 00 am : NIA to probe Chhattisgarh attack , says Shinde . . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) will probe the Maoist attack on Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh after the Centre received a go-ahead from Chief Minister Raman Singh for the same . I have spoken to Raman Singh and he has agreed for probe by NIA ... the probe by the central agency , Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde told PTI on Sunday from New York . Read more here . Updates for 26 May end . . 3.57 pm : PM , Sonia visit injured VC Shukla in hospital . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress President Sonia Gandhi visited injured Congress leader VC Shukla in hospital . The Prime Minister and Congress President had stopped by the Medanta hospital in Delhi shortly after returning from Raipur , where they addressed Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh and visited the injured in hospital . Earlier BJP leader LK Advani who visited Shukla said that the 84-year-old Congress leader was stable after an operation . https://twitter.com/PMOIndia/status/338616953885319170 . . 3.29 pm : Congress calls for bandh in Madhya Pradesh . . Strongly condemning the naxal attack in neighbouring Chhattisgarh , the Opposition Congress in Madhya Pradesh today gave a call for state bandh in protest . We strongly condemn the dastardly act that killed number of our former colleagues . As Chhattisgarh was a part of Madhya Pradesh before the division , therefore gave a bandh call tomorrow in protest , state Congress president Kantilal Bhuria and Leader of Opposition , Ajay Singh told reporters . It was a major lapse as the state government failed to provide security to the Parivartan Yatra ' despite having knowledge about the threat to the Congress leaders from the naxalites , Bhuria said . They demanded the immediate resignation of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh as well as the imposition of President 's rule in the state . The Congress leaders also observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect to those killed in the attack . 3.04 pm : Congress leaderNand Kumar Patel 's body taken to Raipur airport for Sonia , PM to pay tribute . . The bodies of slain leader of opposition in the Chhattisgarh assembly Nand Kumar Patel and his son Dinesh Patel , who were among those killed by Maoist insurgents , were brought to the Raipur airport for Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi to pay their tributes before leaving for Delhi , reports IANS . The Congress leader and his son were among those killed at Darbha Ghati Valley , about 35 km from Sukma in the restive Bastar region , in an attack by Maoists waiting in ambush as a convoy of Congress leaders returning to Raipur from a rally passed a forested area . The prime minister and the UPA chairperson who visited victims of the attack and addressed the state Congress party , are set to head straight to the Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon to enquire after the health of former union minister Vidya Charan Shukla , 84 , who received three bullet injuries in the attack . 2.42 pm : Attack proves Naxals have no respect for democracy : Jairam Ramesh . . Minister for Rural development Jairam Ramesh has said that the Naxal attack in Chhattisgarh proves that the Maoists have no respect for democracy . I was present with all those who have been targetted and killed . This proves that Naxals have no respect for democracy . It is the aam sabha that give oxygen to democracy . This is an attack on democracy and an attack on the Congress party - the party had taken steps to encourage political processes on the ground . Naxals were scared of the impact of development on villagers . In 2011 oct when I visited Bijapur first , out of 157 , only 80 villages had MRNEGS . Yesterday when in I was in bijapur , I saw it is present in 111 villages . 1.49 pm : VC Shukla is stable , says LK Advani . . BJP leader LK Advani who visited veteran Congress leader VC Shukla in hospital has said that he is stable . Speaking to reporters outside Gurgaon 's Medanta hospital where Shukla is being treated , Advani also said that the naxal attack on a Congress rally in Chhattisgarh was one of the most audacious attacks . Need concerted efforts to tackle Naxal menace in Chhattisgarh . I have also spoken to the PM regarding this issue , he added . 1.42 pm : Chhattisgarh on high alert , MHA seeks report . . The Ministry of Home Affairs has sought a report in to the deadly Maoist attack on a Congress rally on Saturday that has killed 27 people . The state has also been put on high alert . The MHA reportedly wants the Chhattisgarh state government to detail the kind of security that was in place for the Congress rally . The attack has puts question marks on the elaborate sophisticated and costly intelligence and security set up that the police have acquired and put in place over the years . Besides helicopters , it includes a drone . The Additional Director General Police in charge of intelligence had no answer as to why the ambush party of 500 plus armed men could not be detected in time . Even worse is the fact that this sort of assembly was not even foreseen in spite of reports that the Maoists had met ten days back before deciding to attack the leaders during the yatra . ( More on that here ) . . 1.08 pm : PM announces compensation to dead and injured . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has announced an ex gratia relief of Rs 5 lakh from the PM 's National Relief Fund to the families of those who have lost their lives in the Chhattisgarh naxal attack and Rs 50000 from the Prime Minister 's National Relief Fund to those injured , tweeted the PMO . The Prime Minister as well as Congress leader Sonia Gandhi who arrived in Raipur earlier this morning , have visited the injured in hospital and also addressed a condolence meeting at the Congress state headquarters . Meanwhile Congress workers today disrupted rail and road servcies during the day-long bandh called by the party in Chhattisgarh to press for the dismissal of the BJP government in the wake of deadly Maoist attack . The bandh has also been called to demand imposition of President 's rule in the state following alleged breakdown in law and order , Chhattisgarh Congress media cell president Shailesh Trivedi had said yesterday . In support of the day-long bandh , the party workers disrupted road and rail traffic in several parts of the state . Congressmen stopped movement of trains in Raigarh , the home district of state Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel , who was killed in the attack . The agitating workers also ransacked the PWD rest house of Kharsiya , the native place of Patel , police said . While private buses and autorickshaws went off the roads , all shops and business establishments remained closed in several prominent cities including Raipur , Bilaspur , Rajnandgaon , Korba and others . 12.39 pm : Sonia Gandhi salutes bravery of Chhattisgarh leaders . . Congress President Sonia Gandhi has told a meeting of Chhattisgarh Congress leaders that she saluted their bravery and shared their pain . I appreciate courage and bravery of Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh , she was quoted as saying by PTI . Meanwhile this image of Gandhi and the Prime Minister meeting victims was tweeted out by the PMO account : . . https://twitter.com/PMOIndia/status/338552257937301504 . . The Prime Minister meanwhile said , Those who have lost their lives in this barbaric attack are martyrs of democracy . 12.18 pm : These lives must not go in vain ' , says PM . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who is in Raipur , has visited Congress members and policemen injured in Saturday 's Naxal attack and said the incident underscored the need to keep fighting Naxal extremism . We have to be more determined in fighting Naxal extremism . These lives should not go in vain , he was quoted as saying on his official Twitter account . This incident should be treated as an inspiration in our fight against forces of extremism and violence.I pray for the souls of the departed . May God give their family members strength in this moment of grief , he added . The PMO account also tweeted out a picture of the Prime Minister interacting with injured at the hospital : . . https://twitter.com/PMOIndia/status/338543498712186881 . . https://twitter.com/PMOIndia/status/338548742779179008 . . 11.52 am : Cong leader VC Shukla remains critical , says hospital . . Veteran Congress leader VC Shukla , who suffered gunshot injuries in the Maoist attack on a Congress rally in Chhattisgarh remains critical , said hospital authorities . The 84-year-old Shukla was airlifted to Gurgaon 's Medanta hospital from Chhattisgarh this morning . Dr AK Dubey from Medanta confirmed that Shukla is being treated for gunshot wounds , and said his condition remained critical . Meanwhile Delhi Chief Minister Sheila Dikshit has visited Shukla at hospital , NDTV reported . 11.19 am : Manmohan Singh , Sonia Gandhi reach Raipur . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi have reached Raipur in the wake of the deadly Maoist attack that has killed 27 people in Dharba Ghat . The PM accompanied by the Congress President are first scheduled to visit the hospital where those injured in cross fire are being treated to take stock of the situation . Later they will visit the Chhattisgarh Congress Headquarters , Gandhi Bhavan where acondolencemeetinghas been scheduled to take place . The deadly attack wiped out all the top leadership in the state including Salwa Judum architect Mahendra Karma and state Congress leader Nand Kumar . The two are also likely to meet state leaders in the Chhattisgarh government . 10.10 am : Tewari calls for detailed investigation into incident . . Minister of Information and Broadcasting Manish Tewari , has conveyed his sympathies to the families of those killed in the Chhattisgarh attack , saying that as someone who has witnessed terrorism first hand , I can understand what families are going through . Tewari added that the entire incident needs detailed investigation and examination . 9.25 am : Modi condemns attack , calls for zero tolerance policy . . Even as political parties closed ranks to condemn the attack on a Congress rally in Chhattisgarh , state Chief Minister Raman Singh has reached the Jagdalpur area , along with four ministers . A massive man-hunt is underway for the perpetrators of the attack that wiped out the top Congress leadership in the state and killed 27 people . Meanwhile Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi has termed the attack in Darbha Ghati as gruesome , and said that the government needed to adopt a zero tolerance policy towards Terrorism and Naxalism . Time has come to adopt policy of Zero Tolerance towards Terrorism & Naxalism . Condolences to families of deceased & respects to policemen who laid down their lives . My prayers with the injured . May they recover quickly . The need of the hour is to stand together as a nation and vow to fight this menace that threatens our democracy , he said on his Twitter feed . 9.15 am : Chhattisgarh police want border with Madhya Pradesh sealed . . The Chhattisgarh police have reportedly asked their counterparts in Madhya Pradesh to help them seal the border of the state , so that the Naxals responsible for the attack that killed 27 people on Saturday can not escape across the border . A massive manhunt is underway in the area to find the perpetrators of the attack that practically wiped out the top Congress leadership in the state . 8.09 am : Congress Chief Nandkumar 's body found . . The body of Congress leader Nand kumar has been discovered in Darbha Ghat , reported CNN-IBN . The body had reportedly been found in a ditch . A badly mutilated body found next to him is believed to be of his son who was abducted along him . However police have not officially confirmed this . Nandkumar Patel was executed after he was abducted . Along with his body and the body believed to be that of his son , police recovered 10 bodies , taking the death toll of the attack to 27 . Meanwhile doctors have said that an autopsy will be carried out on Mahendra Karma , who is believed to be the main target of this attack . Karma was the man behind the Salwa Judum operation that was carried out against the Maoists in the state . He had been pulled out of his official vehicle and executed at point blank range , news channels reported . Congress members have declared three days of mourning and called for a bandh in the state . Background to attack : . . About 200 suspected Maoist rebels set off a land mine and opened fire on a convoy of cars carrying local leaders and supporters of Indias ruling Congress party in Chhattisgarh , killing at least 17 people and wounding 24 others , police said . Senior police officer M. Gupta said the attack occurred Saturday in the Sukma area , about 245 kilometers south of Raipur , the capital of Chhattisgarh state . The convoy was attacked in a forested area as the Congress members were returning to the state capital after attending a party rally , said Ram Niwas , a state police official . Two state party leaders and five police officers were among those killed , said RK Vij , another police officer . Other victims were party supporters . We are devastated , said Congress party President Sonia Gandhi , who denounced what she called a dastardly attack on the countrys democratic values . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the government would take firm action against the perpetrators . Police identified one of those killed as Mahendra Karma , a Congress leader in Chhattisgarh state who founded a local militia , the Salwa Judum , to combat the Maoist rebels . The anti-rebel militia had to be reined in after it was accused of atrocities against tribals indigenous people at the bottom of Indias rigid social ladder . The wounded Congress party members , among them 83-year-old Vidya Charan Shukla , a former federal minister , were taken to a local hospital , police said . The suspected rebels also took away a local party leader , Nand Kumar Patel , and his son , Vij said . The Press Trust of India news agency said the attackers blocked the road by felling trees . Vij said the suspected rebels triggered a land mine blast that blew up one of the cars in the convoy . The attackers then fired at the Congress party leaders and their supporters before fleeing . Police recovered 16 bodies from the scene , and 25 wounded people were hospitalized , Vij said . One of the wounded later died in the hospital , he said . The Congress party is the main opposition party in the state . It has stepped up political activities ahead of state elections scheduled to be held by December . The rebels , known as Naxalites , have been fighting the central government for more than four decades , demanding land and jobs for tenant farmers and the poor . They take their name from the West Bengal village of Naxalbari where the movement began in 1967 . The fighters were inspired by Chinese Communist revolutionary leader Mao Zedong and have drawn support from displaced tribal populations opposed to corporate exploitation and official corruption . Prime Minister Singh has called the rebels Indias biggest internal security threat . They are now present in 20 of Indias 28 states and have thousands of fighters , according to the Home Ministry . In 2010 , Maoist rebels killed 27 paramilitary troops in an ambush in a dense forest in the Narayanpur district of Chhattisgarh state . In fact , evidence indicates that rather than an attack to eliminate top Congress leaders , the Maoists ' target was only two PCC chief Nand Kumar Patel and Salwa Judum architect Mahendra Karma . All the others probably died in the crossfire , as Maoists later let the survivors go . They even gave water to some , including Konta MLA Kawasi Lakhma , and administered a painkiller injection to Congress leader Dr Shivnarain Dwivedi . Lakhma , who was in the same vehicle as Patel and his son Dinesh Patel ( both of whom were killed ) , corroborated this . As firing began , he , Patel , Dinesh and the four others in their vehicle hid in a roadside ditch . Some Maoists spotted us and asked us to surrender . I surrendered but did not reveal my identity ... They took us a little inside the forest and made us wait there for nearly two hours , he told The Indian Express . Around 6 pm , 90 minutes after the attack began , Maoists asked Lakhma and the others to leave , but took Patel and Dinesh away . As we turned back , we heard heavy fire ... I knew it was probably over , he said . An injured Lakhma was lucky to find a bike at the spot with the key in the ignition . Another survivor drove him to Darbha thana . The other target , Mahendra Karma , surrendered soon after his securitymen ran out of bullets . Eyewitnesses say he told the Maoists to let the others go as he was their only enemy . The rebels then took him away and beat him before killing him . We heard slogans , Mahendra Karma Murdabad ' , Lakhma said . Among those asked to leave by the Maoists soon after the attack began was Bastar Congress leader Lakheshwar Baghel . As firing began , we came out of our vehicles . They asked us to run away ... We walked for 30-40 km before reaching a village around 9 pm , he said . The tactic the Maoists employed was simple , and familiar . They first laid an ambush on the hilly , serpentine NH 221 , surrounded by thick forests , on the Bastar-Sukma border , then exploded an IED , creating a crater on the ground . As the vehicles slowed down , they opened indiscriminate fire . The massive explosion completely damaged the fourth vehicle in the convoy , a Bolero , with its pieces scattered across a large area . We tried to drive fast , but found little space . In the hurry , vehicles collided with each other and we were blocked ... could n't move backward or forward , said Ravi Kumar , one of the drivers . Some of our PSOs came out , took positions , but the Maoists had surrounded us . . . The firing continued for over 90 minutes , till the securitymen ran out of ammunition . We came out , hands on head . Maoists took us inside the forest , asked us to lie down , and asked us to leave after around 20 minutes , Kumar said . On Sunday noon , he was back at the spot , fixing his vehicle . While the state Congress 's charge of a conspiracy may be a bit misplaced , nobody is questioning the shocking security failure that made the Maoists ' task easy . Despite the important leaders that were a part of it , especially Karma , the Congress 's convoy on Saturday was travelling through this Naxal-dominated area with practically nil security . Contrast it with Chief Minister Raman Singh 's Vikas Yatra in the district , during which 3,000 cops were deployed at each rally point . Besides , while the Darbha thana and a major CRPF camp are just 10 km from the spot and police got the information about the attack within minutes , it took them nearly two hours to reach . A contingent left the thana immediately but claims they were prevented from proceeding by a Maoist blockade after a few kilometres . Maoists had blocked the road by felling trees , said a policeman who was part of the team . Bastar SP Mayank Srivastava said he had personally accompanied the contingent and they reached the spot by 6.15 pm . The attack had ended when we reached . We did not face any resistance , he said . The vehicle Shukla was in was in the middle of the convoy . On Sunday , behind the bullet-marked Land Cruiser lay a Hindi newspaper , among his other belongings . The front page carried a report on the recent Parivartan Yatra by the Congress in Bijapur attended by Union Rural Development Minister Jairam Ramesh . It carried the details of the Congress 's changing approach towards Maoists , with the headline : Goli ka jawab vikaas se denge ( Will fight bullets with development ) ' . In many ways , it summed up the story of the fight against Maoists today . Development remains elusive , bullets continue . Maoists on Saturday ambushed a Congress convoy in LOC_Event 's Darbha Valley , 350 km from capital Raipur , killing senior Congress leader Mahendra Karma and critically injuring former Union Minister V C Shukla . Former Chhattisgarh home minister Karma , the torchbearer of the controversial Salwa Judum ( a vigilante movement against Maoists that involved arming villagers ) , and former legislator Uday Mudliliyar were among the 24 people killed . Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi will be travelling to Raipur . Gurgaon 's Medanta hospital has sent an air ambulance to the site to airlift the injured Shukla . Television media pictures show a Congress leader in critical condition following a Maoist ambush on a party convoy in LOC_Event 's Darbha Valley . . The police said the Maoists had kidnapped Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee chief Nand Kumar Patel and his son Dinesh , while a prominent woman tribal leader , Phulo Devi Netam , suffered injuries . Chhattisgarh , a hotbed of Maoist-waged violence , is set to go to polls later this year . The attack took place around 5.30 pm when the Congress convoy , comprising more than 20 cars and ferrying nearly 120 Congress leaders and workers , was on its way from the party 's Parivartan Rally ' in Sukma to Jagdalpur . While passing through a dense forest , about 50 km from their destination , the convoy found its path blocked by a tree that had been felled by Maoists . A group of around 150 rebels then triggered a blast and began indiscriminate fire . The personal security officers of the Congress leaders returned the fire but soon ran out of bullets becoming sitting ducks . Sources said Karma , who had earlier survived quite a few attempts on his life , was surrounded by at least 100 Maoists before he was killed . After carrying out the attack , the Maoists set nearby trees on fire . Ex-union minister V C Shukla was wounded in the attack . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called up Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh soon after the attack to inquire about the ground situation . Senior home ministry officials convened for a high-level meeting following the attack and sources said additional forces have been rushed to Chhattisgarh . Sources added that the Central Reserve Police Force , responsible for anti-Maoist operations , was planning an onslaught to flush out the rebels from the jungles fearing more such attacks , with combing operations in the works too . UPA chairperson and Congress president Sonia Gandhi condemned the incident , terming it an attack on democratic values . Addressing the media after meeting Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress vicepresident Rahul Gandhi , Sonia said : We are astounded and pained by what has happened . The Prime Minister has spoken to the chief minister . . . The BJP condemned the attack and said partisan concerns should not be allowed to hinder the fight against terror . NDA working chairperson and BJP veteran L K Advani called up the Prime Minister and asserted that concerted effort should be made to tackle Maoism and Naxalism with a heavy hand , a statement from his office said . BJP president Rajnath Singh echoed the sentiment . The fight against Naxalism and terrorism should be undertaken by all rising above partisan politics , he said . According to sources , Congress leaders in the state had been at the receiving end of threats from Maoists . There was intelligence that Congress leadership could be targeted in the LOC_Event region , a home ministry official said . Allegations flew thick following the attack , with a few Congress leaders accusing the ruling BJP government of failing to provide adequate security for the party 's pre-poll statewide campaign , which it has termed the Parivartan Yatra ' . Forces were deployed to ensure the safe progress of the BJP 's Vikas Yatra . We were not provided similar security , despite the state administration knowing full well about our scheduled yatra , former chief minister and Congress leader Ajit Jogi said . Union minister of State for Home RPN Singh will travel to Jagdalpur on Sunday as senior minister Sushilkumar Shinde is abroad on a trip . Raipur : Congress leaders on Monday denied reports that the route of the ill-fated Parivartan Yatra , which came under Naxal attack on Saturday in south Bastar region , had been changed at the last moment . The convoy of Congress leaders was attacked at Jiram Valley in Darbha region when it was returning from Sukma to Jagdalpur . Twenty-seven people including Chhattisgarh Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel and veteran leader Mahendra Karma were killed and 37 others including former union minster VC Shukla were injured . Reacting to reports in local media about last-moment route change , former Chief Minister and Congress veteran Ajit Jogi said , Rally s route was not changed . MLA TS Singhdeo was in-charge of the route schedule and he had submitted the same route chart thrice for security approval . Convoy was proceeding according to its pre-decided schedule . This was a sheer security lapse , ' Jogi said . Dantewada MLA Kwawasi Lakhma , who was with Patel during the attack , too said there was no change of route . According to the plan we were moving to Keshlur in Darbha region via Tongpal . I was with Nand Kumar Patel and his son Dinesh in the SUV . We were talking about the security arrangements . I told him that I had written to police for providing security on the Darbha route but there was no security , ' he added . Bhubaneshwar : At least 14 Maoists , including a woman , have been killed in a fierce encounter with police in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event district today , an official said.The gun battle , which lasted for several minutes , took place in a forest close to the border with Chhattisgarh . The Maoists who were killed are suspected to have been involved in the attack on a convoy of Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh in May this year.Today 's encounter was carried out jointly by a team of Special Operations Group ( SOG ) and District Voluntary Force ( DVF ) which raided the site and retaliated when the extremists fired at them . Fourteen Maoists were killed . Arms were also seized , Inspector General of Police Soumendra Priyadarshi told IANS.Malkangiri Superintendent of Police Akhileswar Singh , who led the operation , said some explosive materials , arms and ammunition as well as Maoist literature were seized from the site.Describing the operation as a major success in the drive against left-wing extremists in the region , Deputy Inspector General of Police Devdutt Singh said a massive search operation has been launched in the forest after the encounter.Malkangiri , over 600 kilometres from state capital of Bhubaneswar , is a known Maoist stronghold . . LOC_Event : Five people including two tourists were injured in a serial blast near Mahabodhi temple complex at LOC_Event 110 km from Patna on Sunday morning . According to Gaya police , the blasts took place in quick succession between 5.30 am and 6 am in the temple complex and near Mahabodhi tree . Senior police officers , including DIG of Magadh range , have reached the world heritage site Mahabodhi temple . Forensic experts from Patna too have rushed . Two Tibetan pilgrims who have been injured are admitted in AM College at Gaya , police said . CRPF personnel and fire tenders have been rushed to the spot . Mahabodhi temple had been on the hit list of the terrorists and IB had sent an alert last week . The temple was named a Unesco world heritage site in 2002 . It houses the holy bodhi tree as well as the giant Mahabodhi statue of Buddha , and multiple shrines marking the places where he is believed to have spent time after his enlightenment . After his meditations beneath the tree , Buddha is said to have devoted the rest of his life to teaching and he founded an order of monks before dying aged 80 . TALEGAON/GAYA : As many as 13 bombs were planted inside the LOC_Event complex in LOC_Event of which ten had exploded injuring two monks , home minister Sushilkumar Shinde said on Monday . Today , I have the information of 10 blasts . A total of 13 bombs were placed there . I will not go into details where they were kept and all . Two persons have been injured 50-year-old Dorji and Bala Sanga ( 30 ) , ' Shinde told reporters here . Shinde was speaking on the sidelines of a function for inauguration of a hospital of Central Reserve Police Force in Talegaon , about 100 kilometers from Pune . One person held ; bandh hits life in city The NIA detained one person on Monday in connection with the serial blasts at the LOC_Event in LOC_Event in which two monks were injured . DIG , LOC_Event range , Nayyer Hasnain Khan said an identity card was found within the temple premises on Sunday on the basis of which the person was detained . One suspect hailing from Barachatti block in LOC_Event has been detained and we are questioning him . We have been analysing the footage and based on that some more people would be questioned soon , ' a senior police official said . All the CCTV cameras in the LOC_Event premises were fully functional . As you must have seen in the CCTV footage , both state security personnel and temple 's own security personnel were present . I do n't think there was any lapse on security front , ' the official said . Meanwhile , normal life was severely hit in the district on Monday as BJP and RJD gave separate bandh calls to protest against the state government 's alleged security lapses that led to the terror attack in the temple town . BJP workers took to the streets from early morning to enforce the dawn-to-dusk bandh forcing shops and business establishments to close down , the sources said . The temple town was particularly hit by the bandh as roads wore a deserted look and shops and business establishments remained shut since morning , they said . Observing a separate 12-hour bandh in the entire Magadh division , RJD workers were seen stopping movement of vehicles and forcing shopkeepers to shut down shops in LOC_Event , Jehanabad and adjoining districts , the sources said . In Jehanabad , the RJD supporters disrupted train services and raised slogans against the state government for failure to prevent serial blasts in LOC_Event . There was no report of any untoward incident from anywhere due to the bandh called by the RJD and BJP , police sources said . Security has been stepped up at the temple and adjoining areas . Terror struck one of the holiest Buddhist shrines and other places in LOC_Event 's pilgrimage town of LOC_Event on Sunday with suspected Indian Mujahideen operatives simultaneously triggering nine low intensity bombs . While four blasts took place inside the LOC_Event complex , three occurred in LOC_Event , one each near the famous 80-ft Buddha statue and at the bus stand near bypass . The temple 's sanctum sanctorum and the Bodhi Tree , under which Lord Buddha is believed to have attained enlightenment , did not suffer any damage in the blasts . The LOC_Event temple complex in Bihar was rocked by a series of explosions on Sunday morning . Over a hundred worshippers had just finished 30 minutes of chanting and a few were entering the temple complex a UNESCO World Heritage site associated with the Buddhas enlightenment when the first blast occurred at 5:45 a.m. Nine explosions followed in the next hour four at temple sites and five in a 500-meter radius . The Special Task Force ( STF ) of the Kolkata Police is looking into whether a man held here late on Saturday evening and suspected to have links with the banned terrorist outfit , the Indian Mujahideen , is involved in the LOC_Event serial blasts . Anwar Hussain Mullick ( 42 ) was arrested from a bus stop in the heart of the city with explosives and fake Indian currency notes , senior officials of the STF said on Sunday . He is a resident of Chapra in West Bengals Nadia district bordering Bangladesh . He has been remanded in police custody till July 20 . Vilsagga ( 30 ) , a student monk from Myanmar who began his PhD in Buddhist Studies at Magadh University last month , and Tenzing Dorjee ( 60 ) , a retired soldier who now supervises the Ningma Tibetan monastery , were both praying near the LOC_Event and suffered serious injuries in a blast . A 3-kg cylinder with Trinitrotoluene ( TNT ) and ammonium nitrate was later recovered from under the sacred tree a peepal tree where the Buddha is believed to have attained enlightenment in 6th century BC . The tree was not damaged though . The seven-story shikhar , a pyramidal structure that forms the main sanctum , as well as the other shrines at the site were intact . I had been meditating for ten minutes when there was a loud sound . My face and my hand hurt as I tried to make my way to the gate , Vilsagga spoke with difficulty as he lay in maroon robes in the Intensive Care Unit of the AN Magadha Medical College after being treated for soft-tissue injuries and splinter injuries on his face and arms . The police cordoned off the area as senior officials and politicians began arriving from LOC_Event , 12 kms away , and from Patna . The area will remain cordoned off till the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) team examines the area , said Director General of Police Bihar Abhayanand adding that the NIA team had difficulty in landing near LOC_Event because of bad weather . We have provided extra security as requested by the temple management committee and are examining the area for evidence , he added . All shops and most hotels remained closed . A group of monks lined up for evening prayers at 6 p.m. and were allowed inside the temple complex . Chief Minister Nitish Kumar reached LOC_Event from Patna at 10:45 am in the morning and visited the temple complex as well as the injured being treated in Gaya . This is very unfortunate . We have requested the central government for the Central Industrial Security Force to be deployed as well as for help from the NIA in investigations , he said . Even as policemen , Central Reserve Police Force personnel , staff of Forensic Laboratory remained stationed at the complex , BJP workers staged demonstrations twice shouting slogans against the JD ( U ) government . The BJP called a bandh for Monday . At 6 p.m. , more than 50 BJP workers burnt an effigy of the Chief Minister Kumar near the temple . Congress workers criticised the BJP saying the party was using the incident to score politically . Senior police officials said that despite allegations by political parties , there was no intelligence failure on the part of the police . According to SP Narendra Kumar , there were 20 policemen and 38 guards of the LOC_Event Temple Management Committee posted at the main temple on Saturday . The southern wall of the temple complex is low and they may have used this wall to climb into the main complex between 3:30 -4 a.m. , said Mr. Kumar . NEW DELHI : The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) has claimed to have solved the July 7 LOC_Event blasts conspiracy with the recovery of a document from Ranchi that details the entire planning , including the placement of each of the 13 bombs and the planters associated with them . The NIA , which recovered 27 bombs from a lodge in Hindpidih area of Ranchi on Monday , also found a chart in the room that listed the men who allegedly planted 13 bombs in the temple complex of LOC_Event . The document shows that the blasts were planned by Indian Mujahideen 's Tehsin Akhtar and Haidar Ali and included the same planters as in the October 27 Patna blasts . It also includes the name of Imtiaz Ansari , arrested after one of the Patna bombs exploded at the city railway station . Ansari had denied any involvement in the LOC_Event blasts but had conceded that it had been planned by Tehsin . The chart 's matrix reveals Imtiaz had planted bombs near the LOC_Event in LOC_Event . His accomplice Ainul alias Tarique , who was injured while planting bombs at LOC_Event and later died , had planted bombs at the LOC_Event . Mujib , who was staying in the hotel room which was raided on Monday , had planted bombs in four places in LOC_Event . A senior officer privy to investigation details said , This shows that Imtiaz is still hiding several things about IM 's activities . With the recovery of these documents , the LOC_Event puzzle has been solved . We are now in the process of evidence collection and looking for the absconding accused . We will further interrogate Ansari . ' . GAYA : Terror struck the temple town of LOC_Event in LOC_Event , as nine serial explosions rocked the Mahabodhi Temple complex on Sunday morning . Two tourists , including a monk from Myanmar , have been injured in the blasts . The injured are being treated at the Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College hospital . Union home secretary Anil Goswami confirmed that the LOC_Event blasts were a terror attack . Bihar Police suspect the involvement of Indian Mujahideen in the temple blasts . According to Gaya Police , the blasts took place in quick succession between 5.30 am and 6am in the temple complex and near the Mahabodhi tree . One blast was reported from a bus stand . One of the blasts took place just under the enlightenment tree causing partial damage to the Buddha footprints in the shrine premises . Four blasts took place inside the shrine premises , while another three blasts took place in the LOC_Event . The Tregar monastery belongs to the Karmapa , the second most important spiritual leader . One blast each took place at the great Buddha statue and a bus parked on the Sujata bypass . Arvind Singh , a member of Mahabodhi Temple Management Commitee said two other bombs , one near the 80 feet statue and one at bus stand have been defused . Zonal IG Sushil Khopade confirmed eight blasts . LOC_Event chief minister Nitish Kumar reached LOC_Event to take stock of the situation . He took a round of the Mahabodhi Temple complex and held a meeting with the officials . BJP activists led by former minister Prem Kumar greeted Nitish Kumar with go back ' slogans outside the temple main gate . JD ( U ) workers present there raised pro-Nitish slogans and countered the protesting BJP workers . Cops have sealed the entry routes to the shrine . A NIA team is expected to arrive shortly for the probe . A team of NIA officers is coming to LOC_Event from Kolkata , DIG special branch Parasnath said . The DIG said , The sanctum sanctorum of the Mahabodhi Temple is intact . The temple premises have been sanitised . . . The secretary of the LOC_Event committee Dorji said , There were four blasts inside the temple premises . Fortunately , there was no damage to the Bodhi Tree or the main temple structure . . . In the first blast which took place near the Bodhi tree , a table was blown up because of which two persons were injured . The second blast , I think , was inside the enclosure where books were kept . The furniture was damaged but there was no damage to the monuments or statues , he said . Asked about the nature of explosives used , S K Bharadwaj , ADG ( Law and Order ) said they were low intensity time bombs . He said , We got information about six-seven months back that there may be a terror attack on the Mahabodhi temple . After that we had beefed up secuirty and deployed extra forces . LOC_Event Buddhist temple , around 10 km from LOC_Event and 100 km from capital Patna , is world famous . Lord Buddha had attained enlightenment here under the Mahabodhi tree in the temple premises . Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama makes frequent trips to LOC_Event and Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa had visited it six months back . A total of 52 countries have established their monasteries here . LOC_Event : Thirty six hours after multiple blasts rocked the LOC_Event temple , a heritage site in Bihar 's LOC_Event , it was re-opened to the public and special prayers for peace were held by hundreds of Buddhist monks . ( Read : Latest developments ) Investigators are , however , yet to get clear leads on who was behind the series of explosions on early Sunday morning , which left two monks injured . They are studying CCTV footage from about 15 cameras installed in the temple and released footage of an explosion near the LOC_Event . They have also detained a man called Vinod Mistry , whose identity card was found at the blasts site , and are questioning him . Mr Mistry has , however , reportedly claimed that he had lost his identity card a few days ago.There were 10 blasts at the temple and not nine as was earlier reported , Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shide said today . Three live bombs were found and were defused . An analysis of the bombs as allegedly revealed similarities between the Bodh Gaya explosions and the deadly blasts in LOC_Event in 2008 and LOC_Event in 2012 , in which the police suspect the hand of terror group Indian Mujahideen . But investigators warn that more evidence is needed before drawing conclusions.Clocks were used to trigger the blasts yesterday and all bombs were timed to explode at 5.30 am . The investigators are trying to work out why that time was chosen as activity inside the temple is minimal then . The unexploded bombs had Urdu markings on them.The bombs were strategically placed , one was even planted at a height of 20 feet on a Buddha statue , for which a ladder would have been needed , the police said . But no one saw a ladder being brought into the temple premises . ( Read ) Chief Minister Nitish Kumar , criticised for not having secured the temple adequately despite an intelligence report in October last year that it could be attacked , has requested the Centre to take over security at the heritage site . We are requesting the central government to give the responsibility of the security arrangements of the temple to the Central Industrial Security Force or CISF , Mr Kumar said . ( Read : Politics over blasts - It 's BJP vs Nitish , Digvijaya ) Mr Kumar accused the BJP , which was a partner in his government till last month , and rival Lalu Prasad 's RJD of colluding to politicise the Bodh Gaya blasts . The two parties had called for a bandh or shut down in the region . . At least two monks , a Burmese and a Tibetan , were injured in a coordinated terror attack , in and around the Mahabodhi Temple ( the Temple of the Great Awakening , where Buddha is believed to have attained enlightenment ) Complex at Bodh Gaya in the Gaya district of Bihar on July 7 , 2013 . The Bihar Police has confirmed that ten low-intensity serial blasts occurred between 5:30 and 5:58 am at and around the World Heritage site . Union home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde confirmed , Today I have the information of 10 blasts . A total of 13 bombs were placed there Two persons have been injured 50 year old Dorji and Bala Sanga ( 30 ) . Two live bombs were detected and defused at the Complex , while a third bomb was recovered near the Royal Residence hotel at Baiju Bigaha village , about four kilometres from the LOC_Event . DHARAMSALA : Terming the series of blasts at LOC_Event in LOC_Event as unfortunate ' , Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama today said few individuals ' could be behind the attack . The incident is really unfortunate , ' he said , adding that few individuals could be responsible for the attack . The Tibetan government-in-exile said it was deeply saddened over the blasts . ' I am deeply saddened to learn about the series of bomb blasts at LOC_Event . My prayers for the injured and their family members ' , Prime Minister of the government-in-exile Lobsang Sangay said in a statement here . Nine low-intensity blasts took place early in the morning in quick succession at the 1,500-year-old LOC_Event , annually visited by millions of pilgrims from all over the world . Two monks were injured in the attack . The Bihar Police on Monday released the CCTV footage of serial blasts at LOC_Event on Sunday . No group has so far accepted responsibility for the attacks.One person was detained on Monday by the NIA in connection with the serial blasts at the LOC_Event in which two monks were injured.DIG , Magadh Range , Nayyer Hasnain Khan said an identity card was found within the temple premises on Sunday on the basis of which the person was detained.The NIA , Khan said , was interrogating him.One suspect hailing from Barachatti block in LOC_Event has been detained and we are questioning him . We have been analysing the footage and based on that some more people would be questioned soon , a senior police official said . The Bihar police also released sketches of two suspects in teh serial terror blasts at Bodhgaya . The suspects have been identified as Sahidur Rehman and Saifur Rehman , both M operatives . Headlines Today has learnt that the IB was on the lookout for the two , who allegedly slipped into Bihar last month . Sahidur and Saifur Rehman are brothers . One lives in Scotland and the other in Saudi Arabia . Sahidur arrived in India on 6th May while Saifur came a month later . According to IB reports , the two were initially plotting to attack LOC_Event but shifted the target to Bodhgaya later . On Sunday , the Kolkata Police had arrested suspected Indian Mujahideen member , Anwar Hussain Mullick after he was found carrying Rs 1.9 lakh fake currency . The National Security Guard ( NSG ) team has reached LOC_Event to investigate the blasts . No outfit has taken responsibility for the attacks at LOC_Event yet . But Headlines Today has learnt that investigators are focusing on primarily 3 theories.First is the , the Al Qaeda angle . A little known Burmese Outfit named Jamatal Tahawid Jihad is suspected to have carried out blasts with the help of Al Qaeda operatives.The home ministry though has ruled out this possiblity for now.Second theory points towards the Indian Mujahideen . Delhi police had given a tip off to Bihar police after one IM operative Sayeed Maqbool confessed to the plot of carrying out serial blasts at LOC_Event finally , there is the revenge attack angle . Serial balsts in LOC_Event could have been a reaction to the persecution of Muslim minorities in Buddhist majority Myanmar . Experts also believe that Buddhists were the main target of Sunday 's attacks . - with PTI inputs . Patna : Investigating agencies probing Sundays bomb attack at the LOC_Event town of Bodh Gaya in Bihar have found that the terrorists had used the name of Buddha to target the world heritage Mahabodhi Temple . Buddha had attained enlightenment under the Bodhi tree located just behind the Mahabodhi temple in the 6th century BC , after which the site became known as the Land of Peace . The revelation came to light after one of the three bombs recovered from the temple city during a search of the area in the aftermath of the blasts had the word Buddha written on it in bold letters . The bombs were small , liquefied petroleum gas cylinders with timers and contained ammonium nitrate , TNT and RDX . They were planted at key points in the sprawling complex for maximum damage but they exploded 12 hours early in damp conditions , according to investigating agencies . There is evidence that a fusion of low - and high-intensity bomb-making technique was used , said Bihar director general of police Abhayanand . We can guess whose work it could be but can not say as it would impede investigation . Its a terror strike . Such IEDs have been used in the past in the country . The investigating agencies also believe the bombs could have been planted by terrorists wearing yellow robes to escape being noticed . They also believe the terrorists were familiar with the place . Investigators also recovered three hand-written pamphlets written in Urdu from near the blast sites . While two of the pamphlets mention code words describing the locations where the bombs were apparently to be planted , the third one features the words Revenge of Iraq . Sources said the pamphlets were found lying near three bombs that did not explode . The powerful devices were recovered from the top of the 80-feet-tall Buddha statue , near Terga monastery and in the village of Baiju Bigha , which are all located some 1.5 kilometres to 2km from the temple . In all , 12 bombs were planted , out of which nine exploded . This is the first time that the terrorists have targeted Bihar . So far , the area had been a safe corridor for the terrorists , as is evident from the arrest of some 30 suspects from various parts of the state in the past three years . Authorities say their activities have increased since the 2008 Mumbai terrorists attack . For the past several months , security agencies have been constantly combing Bihar areas and arresting suspects , evoking sharp protests from chief minister Nitish Kumar . Only yesterday , the National Investigating Agency issued a list of 12 terrorists , of which two are from Bihar . Last year , the Karnataka police arrested Kafil Akhtar , who was suspected to be involved in Chinnaswami stadium blast . In 2011 , suspected terrorist Riyajul Khan was arrested from Kishanganj district while in 2010 an Afghan militant Mirza Khan , who is alleged to be working for Al Qaida , was arrested from Purnia railway station . The previous year , another suspected terrorist Mohammad Omar Madani was arrested by Delhi police from Madhubani district . According to security agencies , Lashkar e Taiba Nepal chief Madani had been assigned the task of recruiting youths from Bihar after proper training in handling arms and explosives . NEW DELHI : The NIA has zeroed in on the shop in Guwahati that sold exactly 13 Lotus ' brand clocks to a man ahead of LOC_Event blasts - same as the number of bombs planted in temple complex . Each of these clocks was used as a timer in the bombs . The investigators have also traced the cylinders to Meerut , and believe that the poor quality ' cylinders were manufactured by an unregistered facility there . However , they were possibly bought in Bihar itself , where they are transported by the Meerut plant for sales . The NIA investigators have confirmed from the Rajkot-based manufacturer of Lotus ' brand clocks that it had recently sent a sales consignment of 300 clocks to Assam . Interestingly , a shopkeeper in Guwahati also revealed that a man had bought 13 of these clocks in a single transaction . The investigators are now trying to establish the identity of this buyer . Two monks were injured in ten blasts that took place early in the morning of July 7 in LOC_Event . Three unexploded bombs were found . The temple and the Bodhi Tree , under which Lord Buddha is believed to have attained enlightenment , did not suffer any damage in the blasts which shook the holy town frequented by Buddhist pilgrims from Sri Lanka , Myanmar , China , Japan and the whole of south east Asia . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) has released two local men for want of evidence in the serial bomb blasts at LOC_Event temple on Sunday . Binod Mistri and Dashrath Yadav were released on Wednesday night for want of evidence after recording their statements , police said on Thursday . Mr. Mistri was detained in the evening of Sunday by the security forces on the basis of his voter identity card found inside the temple during search after the explosions . Mr. Yadav was held for questioning on the basis of calls Mr. Mistri made to him . Both are from from Barachatti village of Gaya . With the two , all six detained persons were set free . Patna Police on Wednesday released four youngster s who had booked two rooms in a hotel near the temple for merely two hours on Sunday morning . The NIA , which has been formally entrusted with the job of probe into the terror attack , is now sifting through the data of calls , incoming as well outside from the temple town . Some clues had been found during the exercise and a few persons might be called for questioning soon , police said . Meanwhile , prohibitory orders under section 144 CrPC imposed around the temple area continued to remain in force till further order . Shops selling toys and small items related to Buddhism in the vicinity of the historic temple remained closed . The shops will remain closed till further order , Sub Divisional Officer Mohammad Maqbool Alam told PTI . District Magistrate has called a meeting with the shopkeepers to discuss possibility of shifting them to other places . Bihar Governor D.Y. Patil on Thursday visited the temple and backed Chief Minister Nitish Kumars request to the Centre to hand over the security of the temple to CISF . Arvind Singh , member , Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee ( BTMC ) said that people were flocking the temple to pay respect to lord Buddha . Tight security arrangements had been maintained by Bihar Military Police and CRPF . The National Investigation Agency has identified those who planted bombs at LOC_Event , following the recent raids in Ranchi . We have identified the group and the planters . But how the conspiracy was hatched , how the plan was executed is still to be ascertained , an NIA official told The Hindu . The investigators recovered , during a raid at Iram lodge in LOC_Event , a sheet of paper which they say were prepared by Hyder Ali , a suspect named in the LOC_Event blasts FIR , currently absconding . All five of Hyder , Imtiaz Ansari , Tariq alias Ainul , Taufeeq and Mujibal Ansari are planters in the LOC_Event case , NIA sources told The Hindu . Except Mujibal , all others are named in the Patna blast FIR . Ainul , who was injured while planting a bomb in the toilet of the LOC_Event railway station , succumbed to his injuries . Hyder was the planter of the bomb near the Bodhi tree . The sheet not only plots the blast locations , such as wall and tree , but also lists the number of bombs at each location and the name of the planter besides it . The document was prepared by someone who only addressed himself as me . It could possibly be Hyder , NIA sources said.This LOC_Event module of the Indian Mujahideen , mentored by IM operative Tehseen Akhtar , is the group identified for the LOC_Event blast . Interrogation of IM commander Yasin Bhatkal revealed that the group had been aiming to target LOC_Event for over a year . While the specific motive of the attack is still under investigation , the possible aim was to avenge the Rohingya issue in Myanmar , where Rohingya Muslims have faced persecution . In addition , on the cylinder bombs that were defused at the temple site , investigators had found chits stuck on the cylinder carrying some text . We have found the original material that links to the text of these papers . It is jihadi literature , an NIA official said . Bodh Gaya : A day after multiple blasts , regular prayers were organised at the LOC_Event temple in LOC_Event . Earlier , the Bihar Police released the CCTV footage of one of the blasts . They have also detained a man named Vinod Mistry , whose identity card was found at the blast site , for questioning . Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said he will ask the Centre to appoint the Central Industrial Security Forces ( CISF ) to guard the world-famous temple . The Delhi Police Special Cell had , on the basis of revelations made by alleged Indian Mujahideen terrorist Sayed Maqbool , last October disclosed that the banned outfit planned to target the Buddhist shrines in Bodh Gaya . The police had shared the input with the agencies concerned almost nine months ago . Through an October 26 , 2012 release , the Special Cell announced Maqbools arrest in the Pune blasts case . It said he was a trainer in improvised explosive devices . He was tracked down to Hyderabad where he was arrested on October 23 last year . Based on the purported disclosures of other suspected IM members Asad Khan , Imran Khan , Sayed Feroz and Landge Irfan Mustafa the police had said the four , along with Maqbool , had planned to carry out a fidayeen attack at the Buddhist shrines in Bodh Gaya in retaliation to the alleged atrocities being committed on Muslims in Myanmar . Their plan had the approval and support of Bhatkal brothers -LSB- alleged IM founders -RSB- . Pune blasts . . The Special Cell said Maqbool had taught Imran and Asad how to configure a bomb . In April 2012 , Imran introduced him to the Bhatkal brothers . Before the Pune serial blasts in August last , Maqbool , Irfan , Imran and Asad discussed their plan to target the Buddhist shrines in LOC_Event , said the release , adding that since the Bhatkals wanted to avenge the death of Qateel Siddiqui ( a terror suspect killed in Punes Yerawada Jail ) , they decided to first carry out blasts in Pune . The police said Maqbool last year helped Imran in conducting a reconnaissance of Dilkushnagar , Begum Bazar and Abids in Hyderabad on a motorcycle . Incidentally , two blasts were triggered that claimed 18 lives in Dilkushnagar on February 21 . No arrests have been made in the case so far . The Uttar Pradesh Government on Saturday announced an increase in the compensation for victims of Fridays multiple blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event that claimed the lives of at least 15 people , including four lawyers , and injured over 80 . . . LOC_Event Nov 24 : The Uttar Pradesh Government on Saturday announced an increase in the compensation for victims of Friday 's multiple blasts in LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event that claimed the lives of at least 15 people , including four lawyers , and injured over 80 . . . LOC_Event Principal Secretary ( Home ) J. N. Chamber said that Chief Minister Mayawati has increased the compensation keeping in view `` the economic condition of the families of the victims '' . . The kin of each of the dead would get five lakh rupees , while one lakh rupees is to be paid to each of the severely injured and those who sustained minor injuries will get 50,000 rupees each , said Chamber . . . Mayawati had on Friday announced a compensation of Rs . 2 lakh to the next of kin to each of those killed and Rs .50,000 for those injured in the incidents . . . Condoling the loss of lives in the blasts and expressing concern for the injured , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh , on Friday , also announced an ex-gratia relief of one lakh rupees for the next of the kin of the dead and Rs .50,000 for the seriously injured from the Prime Minister 's National Relief Fund . . . Meanwhile , the Uttar Pradesh police released the sketches of two suspects believed to be behind the blasts . . . The sketches were prepared based on the statements of eyewitnesses , including a cycle-store owner and a cycle-stand employee . . . The Deputy Inspector General ( DIG ) P P Srivastav released the sketch of a 25-year-old youth wearing spectacles who had allegedly picked up a bicycle from the cycle stand at the railway station and after loading it with explosives allegedly kept it in the compound of the Faizabad civil court . . . `` The person purchased the cycle which was found at the site of the incident and was parked at the stand . There is also a possibility that there may be two different persons involved , one purchased the cycle and the other used it for the purpose , '' said A K Jain , Inspector General ( IG ) of LOC_Event zone . . . The state police last night released sketches of three suspects believed to behind the blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event courts . . . The sketch of the suspect who purchased the bicycle from a shop on Thursday and kept it at the railway station stand was among the three sketches released last night . . . Meanwhile , Special Task Force has been asked to probe the near-simultaneous blasts in court premises at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . Six bombs - three in LOC_Event , two in LOC_Event and one in LOC_Event - some planted on cycles , went off within a span of 15 minutes . . . The blasts came a week after the Uttar Pradesh police along with central security agencies busted a Jaish-e-Mohammed module , which wanted to target Congress leader Rahul Gandhi . . . addthis_url = location.href ; addthis_title = document.title ; addthis_pub = ` vijaytech ' ; . . a36 ( ) ; . . . Guwahati , Dec 13 ( UNI ) At least five people were killed and around ten injured in an early morning blast today in the LOC_Event near Dimapur set off by suspected Adivasi militants . . . In New Delhi , Home Minister Shivraj Patil condemned the blast and assured all possible help to the state government in tackling such terror attacks . . . Expressing anguish over the blast and conveying his sympathies to the victims and their families , the Home Minister said the Centre would provide all necessary assistance to the state government and Railways to take steps to provide protection to passengers and see that such incidents do not recur . . . Home Secretary Madhukar Gupta spoke to the Chief Secretary of Assam to get details of the incident . . . Train services , however , resumed later on the route while the train proceeded towards New Delhi after the damaged rake was detached from the train . . . As a precautionary measure , security had been stepped up in all sections following the blast suspected to be triggered by alleged Adivasi militants at Sungajan . . . North East Frontier Railway spokesman from the headquarters at Maligaon Trikalagya Rabha said the deceased were identified as Satyaprakash Rai ( 45 ) , Sudama Rai ( 45 ) , Lakshman Rai ( 44 ) , A K Sah ( 20 ) and D Prasad ( 19 ) . The four seriously injured people were admitted to the Dimapur Civil Hospital in Nagaland . . . According to a police source , a programmable timed device was placed in the parcel van of the train by some unknown passengers who alighted at Morioni . . . Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi also condemned the incident . . . . Special Correspondent . . NEW DELHI : Condemning the bomb blasts in LOC_Event and LOC_Event , the CPI on Sunday asked the Centre and the Karnataka and Gujarat governments to work in coordination for a thorough investigation into the incidents , instead of blaming each other . . . Calling for the need to ensure that the culprits are booked and punished without delay , the Central Secretariat of the party called upon the people to remain united and not allow any provocation so that the forces that were opposed to the country could be isolated and defeated . . . Terming the blasts an evil design to destabilise the country , the party said the targeting of common people was to create scare and strife among them . AHMEDABAD : The car bomb that killed 29 people in the Civil Hospital blast on Saturday travelled back and forth between Ahmedabad and Vadodara at least six times between July 3 and 26 , investigations have revealed.Of the four car bombs used by terrorists in Gujarat two that exploded in Ahmedabad on Saturday and the other two found abandoned in Surat police has been able to gather some information on the movement of only the WagonR that caused the maximum damage at the hospital.This car was stolen from Navi Mumbai on July 3 but the complaint was filed later . Terrorists used this vehicle extensively for travel between Ahmedabad and Vadodara , as per expressway records . It is possible that the bombers used Vadodara as the base for making bombs and also travelled to Surat in the vehicle during the period.The car used in the Civil Hospital blast had a fake registration number GJ 6D 9778 of a Vadodara two-wheeler . Inquiries revealed that the first record of the car 's movement was at the Vadodara toll plaza at 3 pm on July 3 , indicating that it was headed for Ahmedabad.Subsequently , movements of the car are recorded on July 7 , 8 , 9 , 23 and 24 . Police believe the bombs may have been brought to Ahmedabad just two days before the blasts.On July 26 , the car packed with IEDs and LPG gas cylinders became the spearhead of the terrorist operation , accounting for nearly two-third of the total casualties in Ahmedabad.Movement of the car bomb along ExpresswayJuly 3 LOC_Event to Ahmedabad July 7 Ahmedabad-Vadodara-AhmedabadJuly 8 Ahmedabad-Vadodara-AhmedabadJuly 9 Ahmedabad-Vadodara-AhmedabadJuly 23 Ahmedabad-Vadodara-AhmedabadJuly 24 Ahmedabad-Vadodara-Ahmedabad . doweshowbellyad = 0 ; . . The LOC_Event 's Anti-Terrorism Squad ( ATS ) reached this conclusion after extensive questioning of the owner of the flat from whose IP address the terror mail was sent last evening . . . `` It is similar to the case of ( US national ) Kenneth Heywood and after the preliminary questioning of flat owner KM Kamath it is believed that his internet connection is not secure and is WiFi-enabled , making it easier to be hacked , '' Additional Commissioner of Police ( ATS ) , Parambir Singh told PTI . . . The ATS last night traced the terror mail sent under the name of Indian Mujhahideen to the IP address of a firm , Kamran Power Control Pvt Ltd , at 201-202 Eric House , 16th Road , LOC_Event , an eastern suburb in LOC_Event . Service provider Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited ( MTNL ) was used for sending the email . . . Kamran Power has been in existence for about 25 years , with 50 employees and manufactures low and medium voltage electrical and electronic control panels required in industries such as steel , cement , sugar and pharma , police said . AHMADABAD , India A low-intensity bomb exploded at a LOC_Event packed with Muslims breaking their Ramadan fast in LOC_Event on Monday , killing one person and wounding 15 others , police said . . . Two of the wounded were in critical condition at a hospital in the predominantly Mulsim town of Modasa in LOC_Event state , a police officer said on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to reporters . . . Two people on a motorbike dropped a bag containing explosives on a road in the LOC_Event and fled , the officer said . . . No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack . . . A series of blasts have rocked Indian cities and killed more than 140 people since November . . . Separately , one person was killed and 15 injured in a blast in a crowded market in the western Indian town of LOC_Event , said A. Naik , a police officer . . . Naik said it was a gas cylinder blast outside a restaurant in LOC_Event , but Indian television news channels quoted unnamed police officers as saying it also was a bomb blast . . . Police fired warning shots in the air and used bamboo sticks to disperse an angry mob that converged on the scene of the blast , Naik said . . . Two years ago , 31 people were killed and more than 100 wounded in a deadly attack on a mosque in LOC_Event , a town nearly 180 miles ( 300 kilometers ) northeast of Mumbai , the capital of Maharashtra state . . . Nearly 75 percent of Malegaon 's 500,000 residents are Muslims . Malegaon has long been the scene of violence between Hindus and Muslims . . . Breaking Ramadan fast Imphal , Oct. 21 : A blast near a hub of security forces in Imphal killed 17 people and injured 20 this evening , two days after a grenade explosion near the chief ministers office . . . The bomb was fitted to a two-wheeler popularly called a moped . . . Police suspect that the headquarters of 20 Assam Rifles , and the Manipur police commando complex 200 metres away , where personnel live with their families , were the targets . It is not yet known if any security personnel died . . . The bomb went off close to a cluster of people at Ragailong village playing a game of dice called lagao . . . The police said 11 people died on the spot and six in hospital . The victims were taken to the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences ( RIMS ) , Jawaharlal Nehru Hospital and a private hospital . . . Baidyanath Prasad , whose paan shop is close to the blast site , wept at the RIMS when he saw the headless torso of his 20-year-old son . . . My son went near the lagao venue to relieve himself . He was innocent . Why should anyone kill innocents like Raju ? Prasad said . . . K. Mangle Singh of Minuthong , which is close to Ragailong , looked worried . My son Rajen Singh has not returned home . I could not get him on his mobile phone ; he did not take the call . So I came here to see if he is wounded . . . The site was strewn with mangled and torn limbs . Body parts had been flung 20 feet away . . . No group has claimed responsibility yet . The Peoples Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak , which claimed to be behind Sundays grenade explosion near chief minister Okram Ibobi Singhs office complex , denied any role in todays blast . . . A resident of Ragailong said many people had gathered at the site for gambling , which picks up ahead of Diwali . He said people from other parts of the state too came to the place to gamble . . . The police suspect the bomb was fitted to a timer . Director-general of police Yumnam Joykumar Singh said the bomb could have been planted on the two-wheeler , which was smashed to pieces . . . I was in my room when I heard a loud bang . I thought the explosion had happ - ened inside our complex , a Manipur police commando said . . . A doctor at the RIMS , while cleaning a blast victims wounds , said : This is the second time after the Iskcon blast that so many injured people have been brought to the hospital . We are struggling to attend to all these patients . . . The Iskcon blast , which happened two years ago , had killed four devotees and wounded more than 50 on Janmashtami . . . Ibobi Singh and several ministers came to see the injured and console relatives . As Union Home Secretary G K Pillai confirmed that David Coleman Headley , arrested by the FBI for plotting a major terror attack in LOC_Event at the behest of the Lashkar-e-Toiba , had visited the country , including Mumbai , several times , official sources said the government has now decided on prior clearances for visas to American citizens of Pakistani origin . . . Sources said that Headley , a Pakistani national who acquired US citizenship after changing his name from Daood Gilani , travelled to LOC_Event on business visas nine times between 2006 and 2009 . . . And Pillai , responding to queries from reporters today , said : `` We do know that Headley had visited LOC_Event a number of times . That is being investigated ... He has been in Mumbai and some other places . '' . . Security agencies are looking into Headley 's visits to `` several cities '' and say it is too early to say whether these were linked to the 26/11 terror strike in Mumbai . . . Official sources said Headley was suspected to have set-up an extensive network , particularly in Maharashtra , Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh , using the cover of a businessman . . . Although the government is awaiting the return of Intelligence officials who had gone to interrogate Headley and his associate Tahawwur Hussain Rana , alarm bells are already ringing in the internal security establishment with immigration records being dug out to get hold of the full picture . . . As a first step , the government , sources said , will inform the Americans that visas to its nationals of Pakistani origin will only be given after prior clearances . The government believes that Daood Gilani deliberately acquired a Christian name and American passport to avoid detection in India . . . Headley was arrested last month at Chicago 's O'Hare airport as he prepared to board a flight to Philadelphia , intending to travel to Pakistan . Condemning the bomb blast in LOC_Event on Tuesday , Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said it was an attempt to weaken LOC_Event 's resolve to fight the evil forces of terrorism . . . Dr. Singh appealed to people to maintain calm and peace . It is the most unfortunate incident . It was an attempt to weaken our resolve to fight the evil forces of terrorism and the terrorists will not succeed , he said soon after the incident . . . My heart goes out to those suffering families and we will provide succour to them , the Prime Minister said . . . Earlier , he asked the Home Ministry for a detailed report . . . Terming the blast an attempt to disturb peace and harmony , Home Minister P. Chidambaram appealed to the people to remain calm . He said security had been tightened all over the country . . . He said the Indian Mujahideen had claimed responsibility . The authenticity of the claim was being verified . . . He said various media houses received an e-mail purported to be from the outfit . It is a five-page document that refers to the demolition of the Babri Masjid , Jammu and Kashmir and other issues . PTI . . Nationwide alert . . Special Correspondent reports : . . In the wake of the blast , a nationwide alert , particularly in Delhi , Hyderabad , Bangalore and Mumbai , had been sounded , said Union Home Secretary G.K. Pillai . . . A general alert has been sent to all State governments and they were asked to stay on high alert . . . The Home Ministry planned to send a team of National Investigation Agency to LOC_Event . It was a low intensity blast that occurred at 6.20 p.m. and three to four people were injured . Subsequently , we understand there could have been a stampede . As a result 15-20 people were injured . So about 20-25 people were injured , Mr. Pillai said . India 's Western city of LOC_Event was rocked by three serial blasts at around 7.30 pm on Wednesday . The explosions took place at LOC_Event , LOC_Event and LOC_Event . . . At least 10 people were killed in the blasts , including four in LOC_Event . . . All three locations are busy market places and the evening rush hour added to the intensity of death toll which is feared to go up further . . . The blast at LOC_Event took place at LOC_Event in a car , while LOC_Event bomb was kept in a meter box at a jewelry shop . . . One unexploded bomb was also found in the city and the bomb squad has been rushed to the spot . . . Taking the toll of the situation National Investigative Agency ( NIA ) team has rushed to LOC_Event from the national capital New Delhi and a high alert has also been declared in LOC_Event . . . According to witnesses , at least 20 were injured in LOC_Event alone . . . Home Ministry has termed the blasts as terrorist attacks . . . . LOC_Event : Senior BJP leader LK Advani , who is in LOC_Event , blamed the LOC_Event attacks today on `` a policy failure '' by the UPA government.Home Minister P Chidambaram said this morning that the serial blasts in LOC_Event last evening can not be described as an intelligence failure . Mr Advani countered , `` It is not an intelligence failure ... I do n't accuse the government of that ... it is a policy failure . `` So far , 17 people have died ; 131 were injured in the three blasts that took place within twelve minutes during rush hour last evening . The BJP leader visited the sites of the trio of blasts this morning ; he also spent some time in two hospitals where those injured are being treated . He urged the government to adopt a `` zero-tolerance policy on terror . `` He also said that `` LOC_Event has become a favourite target of terrorists - whether they are from neighbouring countries or from here . '' Mr Advani said that there are reports that the Indian Mujahideen - an indigenous terror group - may have been responsible for the latest attacks . The Home Minister categorically said this morning that it would be irresponsible right now to speculate on who is to blame . `` Even if Indian Mujahideen caused these new blasts , they get their support from Pakistan , '' Mr Advani said . `` As far as India is concerned , the government must shed its ambivalence towards terrorism , '' he added . `` It must be categorical in declaring that total policy of India towards terrorism hereafter shall be of zero-tolerance . . we will not tolerate anything which seems to promote or condone or compromise or disregard any terrorist activity . This should be a basic premise of our relationship with Pak - that it will have to dismantle the infrastructure that it has created for terror , '' he said . . It was on a Wednesday less than two months ago that serial blasts shook Indias financial capital of Mumbai . And it was on Wednesday of this week , with the memories of that July 13 attack still fresh in the national psyche , that a deadly blast shook Indias national capital of Delhi , rattling not only the citys High Court , but also the confidence of a nation trying hard to fight the menace of terrorism . . . I reached the blast site within half an hour of the incident , and what I saw was complete chaos . Most of the injured and dead had been removed by that time , but some victims were still being hastily placed into ambulances while the police were cordoning off the area . . . The gate where the tragic incident took place is the main entry point for litigants seeking passes to enter the court premises , and its generally very crowded in the morning . At 10:17 am , when the bomb went off , there were around 100 people in the area , according to an eyewitness to whom I spoke . One of the lawyers informed me that since Wednesday is designated for hearing public interest cases , its always a busy day at the court . . . A lawyer , Gajendra Gupta , whose white shirt was stained with blood , told me the blast had taken place just as he was entering the building and that he had helped place the victims into the ambulances . It was a deafening noise and by the time I realized what had happened , I saw many injured and dead bodies strewn around me . I saw at least five or six dead bodies . . . Some people died on the spot and others were injured , said another eyewitness , Dhirendra Kumar , who had minor injuries on her hand . As I heard the blast , I stepped to the side and after 10 or 15 minutes , police came and took the injured to the hospital . . . This was the second blast to shake the Delhi High Court within the last four months . A low intensity bomb blast took place on May 25also a Wednesdaybut no one was hurt . . . Its a different story this time , however , and the scene at the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital , where most of the injured were taken , presents a picture of chaos , shock , anger , and helplessness . The relatives of the victims havent been able to meet their loved ones , and the frequent visits of the politicians only ends up irritating the waiting kith and kin , who blame the government for being lax in tackling terror in the country . . . Meanwhile , the dozens of injured are being shunted from one hospital building to another . Adding to the surreal feel of it all are the TV crews , who have been running after each stretcher to thrust their microphones at the victims . . . I spoke to Dr. Sampoorna , who described the horrific scene inside the ward . . . I saw at least 12 to 14 dead bodies , she said . Some were without limbs , some were without legs , and some were beyond recognition . . . So far , 12 people are said to have died in the blast or from their injuries , with dozens more injured . . . As Rajeev noted yesterday , Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami ( HuJI ) , a Pakistan-based militant group with an affiliate in Bangladesh , claimed responsibility for the attack . In an e-mail sent to media houses , the terror group claims to have carried out the blast in retaliation for the death sentence given to Afzal Guru , who was convicted in connection with the attack on the Indian parliament in 2001 . . . While Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told parliament that there had been some intelligence relating to threats , shared with the Delhi Police in July , he refused to identify the group that had carried out the bomb blast . . . The attack comes at a time when Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is on a historic visit to Bangladesh to bolster ties between the two neighbours , and some analysts see the attack as an attempt to divert attention from the landmark agreement signed between New Delhi and Dhaka . They argue that the attacks are designed to create a wedge between the two nations , and they point out that the serial strikes in Mumbai in July were on the eve of talks between the foreign ministers of India and Pakistan . . . Whatever the reason , the people of India are fed up with the governments failure to contain terrorism . A palpable sense of anger can be detected in the hospital , at the blast site , on the streets of the capital and in the TV studios . . . But no lawno matter how tough it iscan eradicate terrorism . We live in an environment where terrorism is a reality . And , since theres not a single group that can be blamed for these attacks , there isnt one motivation and therefore one solution . . . For now , at least , India seems destined to grapple with these tragic Wednesdays . . . . LOC_Event : Maharashtra Police has prepared sketches of two persons who may have planted explosives in LOC_Event as investigators suspect the involvement of at least three persons in executing the 1 August serial bomb blasts here . . . `` The sketches of two persons who could be bomb planters are ready . It will not be made public but would be given to the policemen involved in the investigations , '' a police officer told PTI today . . . `` Initial probe suggest that the there could be at least three suspects who have planted bombs that exploded within an area of 500 meters , '' the official added . . . On Wednesday , four low intensity explosions took place between 7.37 and 8.15 pm during rush hour in the heart of LOC_Event on LOC_Event , LOC_Event , LOC_Event and the large LOC_Event , popular for family outings in the evening . . . The explosions occurred near LOC_Event Dena Bank branch , a LOC_Event outlet and LOC_Event . The first bomb went off at LOC_Event where one person identified as Dayanand Patil was injured . . . The National Investigation Agency , Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad and LOC_Event crime branch have been conducting the probe into the blasts simultaneously . . . The investigators have also approached mobile operators to verify if any new numbers were traced in and around the spots on the fateful day . . . `` We have approached mobile companies seeking the details of new numbers or suspicious numbers their towers have captured before and after the blasts . There will be lakhs of calls a tower catches in a few minutes . In this mammoth task , we have to go through all these numbers and zero in on the numbers used by suspects , '' the official added . . . Official sources in Delhi had yesterday said that wrist watches were used to trigger the serial blasts and the manner in which this was done with detonators kept on three newly-bought bicycles , two dustbins and a polythene bag was similar to the technique adopted by banned home grown terror group Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) . Refuting Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde 's charge that opposition-ruled states were opposed to formation of NCTC , BJP today said the government needs to strengthen intelligence gathering and coordination rather than `` playing politics '' on the issue of terrorism . A bomb explosion of low intensity injured 17 people , including 12 police personnel , in LOC_Event on Wednesday morning . The blast occurred some 100 metres from the headquarters of the Bharatiya Janata Party at LOC_Event . The police personnel were in a Karnataka State Reserve Police van stationed on 24-hour election duty . Two cars and two two-wheelers were gutted , while the police van was damaged in the explosion that shook the densely populated semi-residential area . The 10.20 a.m. blast coincided with the last day of the filing of nominations for the May 5 Assembly polls . Preliminary investigation revealed that the blast was triggered by a timer-based improvised explosive device fitted on a blue Suzuki motorcycle it turned out to be an Andhra Pradesh vehicle with fake Tamil Nadu registration plates parked between two cars . Initial reports pointed to an LPG cylinder in a party workers Maruti Omni van as the source . Special teams . . Police Commissioner Raghavendra H. Auradkar said special teams had been formed for investigation . A forensics team found the timer . The police said they have CCTV footage of the area . Sketches are being prepared of the motorcycle rider , based on two persons claims they saw someone park the vehicle there at 10.15 a.m. The last blast occurred in the city three years ago to the day , ahead of an Indian Premier League fixture at the Chinnaswamy Stadium . On Tuesday , in the wake of the LOC_Event blasts and ongoing IPL 6 series , the Union Home Ministry had issued a general advisory to the State police . However , Mr. Auradkar said there was no specific intelligence on the LOC_Event blast . The busy street on LOC_Event , which was in the thick of electoral activity , was covered with shattered glass , mostly from broken vehicle window panes . KSRP head constable Venkateshaiah , who was having his breakfast inside the van when the blast occurred , said : We heard a loud explosion , and before we knew it , the windows shattered and there was thick black smoke everywhere . We couldnt see a thing initially but somehow made our way out of the van . When the smoke cleared a bit , he saw people lying with injuries . Some of them had lost consciousness . They were rushed to the State-run K.C. General Hospital and Mallige Hospital . Hospital authorities said all the injuries were caused by shattered glass and the impact of the blast ( sound and heat ) . Barring two minor surgeries , all the victims sustained only light injuries , mainly cuts . Chief Electoral Officer Anil Kumar Jha said the police report on the blast was despatched to the Election Commission . As of now there is no link of the blast to the May 5 elections , he said . Condemning the blast , Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar told presspersons in Hubli the real intention behind the crime will be traced once the investigation was over . At least 13 Maoists , including a woman , were killed in an exchange of fire with the police in the LOC_Event , about 11 km from Padia and 35 km from Malkangiri , in LOC_Event on Saturday . According to the police , a huge cache of ammunition was recovered from the site where 30 to 40 Maoists were conducting a camp . Thirteen bodies were shifted to the district headquarters town of Malkangiri . Search operations for the dead and injured , if any , are continuing . An inquest is being conducted , a senior IPS officer in charge of the operations told The Hindu . A gunfight took place in the early hours after the Maoists fired at a group of the District Voluntary Force , mostly comprising ex-servicemen and personnel of the Special Operation Group of the Odisha police late night on Friday . On Saturday morning , we found 13 bodies along with two big claymore mines , several improvised explosive devices , AK 47s , country-made pistols and magazines , the officer said . LOC_Event DGP Prakash Mishra told journalists in Bhubaneswar before flying to Malkangiri that the operation , led by Malkangiri SP Akhileswar Singh , was well planned and executed . Mr. Mishra set an ultimatum for the militants to leave LOC_Event or face severe consequences . This is the first major operation the Odisha police conducted without involving the Central Armed Police Forces and the Andhra Pradesh police . The site is close to Darbha in Chhattisgarh , where Maoists had killed Salwa Judum founder and tribal leader Mahendra Karma and 18 others in a deadly attack on the convoy of Chhattisgarh Congress leaders on May 25 . The police suspect that the dead belonged to the Local Operational Squad ( LOS ) of the Padia area and the Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee . The two groups were part of the Kalimela squad , which is active in the Dandakaranya region of LOC_Event and Chhattisgarh . Maoists increased their activity in the Dandakaranya region after they were flushed out of North Telangana of Andhra Pradesh . Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar , who visited the LOC_Event condemned the attack but maintained that security had been provided to the religious site . Any condemnation of this incident would not be enough . LOC_Event is a sacred pilgrimage site and the key location for the faith of millions across the world . To carry out such an attack at such a place in condemnable , he said . The government had always been on the alert and taken steps to ensure the security of the LOC_Event and LOC_Event in general . RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav held the government responsible for failing to act upon intelligence inputs . LJP leader Ramvilas Paswan demanded Mr. Kumars resignation on moral grounds for failing to prevent the attack despite intelligence inputs . 23:49 pm : Blasts in LOC_Event ' a cowardly act ' , says Sonia GandhiCondemning the serial blasts at LOC_Event in Bihar as a cowardly ' act , Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Sunday expressed hope that the guilty will be brought to book at the earliest.Gandhi said the attack on the sanctum sanctorum of peace was unfortunate .21:29 pm : Sri Lanka President Mahinda Rajapaksa condemns terror attack Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa condemned the terror attack in internationally renowned LOC_Event in Bihar , a place of religious significance for the Buddhists .20:26 pm : Bihar Police release sketches of two men suspected to be behind serial blasts .20:09 pm : NIA team reaches LOC_Event , begins probeA National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) team began its probe into the serial blasts in the LOC_Event in Bihar 's LOC_Event town , police officials said.A NIA team led by an IPS officer Vikas Vaibhav began probe into the serial blasts in LOC_Event soon after they arrived , said an official at police headquarters .19:45 pm : Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama condemns LOC_Event blasts .18:55 pm : Suspected Indian Mujahideen member held in Kolkata for LOC_Event bomb blastsPolice are probing links of a man arrested with explosives to the banned terrorist outfit Indian Mujahideen , suspected to be involved in LOC_Event bomb blasts , officials said.Anwar Hussain Mullick , 42 , was arrested from a bus stop in the heart of the city late on Saturday evening with explosives and fake Indian currency notes , a senior official of the Special Task Force said here Sunday .18:41 pm : Gujarat on alert after LOC_Event serial blasts : DGPAn alert has been sounded across Gujarat in the wake of the serial blasts that rocked LOC_Event in Bihar 's LOC_Event district , Gujarat Director General of Police ( DGP ) Amitabh Pathak said .18:38 pm : Bomb found in LOC_Event hotel defusedThe cylinder bomb found at hotel in LOC_Event village has defused . Earlier , police defused a cylinder bomb in Terega monastery and another near the statue of Buddha near the LOC_Event .18:30 pm : Delhi Police claims it alerted Bihar on LOC_Event terror plotDelhi Police had alerted its Bihar counterpart and intelligence agencies about LOC_Event temple being on the radar of terror outfits , according to senior police official.The input was given on the basis of information we had obtained from a group of Indian Mujahiddin ( IM ) terrorist arrested in 2012 in the Pune blasts case , said the Delhi police official.According to the police , IM operatives had told them that they were planning Pune-like blasts in Delhi and Bihar for which they had specifically spent around two weeks doing a recce of the temple town .17:50 pm : LOC_Event serial blasts : BJP calls Gaya bandh ' tomorrowIn protest against the serial blasts in and around the LOC_Event , the BJP has called for Gaya bandh ' on Monday .17:45 pm : Security beefed up in Bangalore in wake of blasts in Bodh GayaSecurity has been beefed up in Bangalore , country 's IT hub , in the wake of the serial blasts in Buddhist pilgrimage town of LOC_Event and LOC_Event Temple complex .17:28 pm : Punjab CM Badal terms blasts as barbaric and inhuman act Condemning the blasts at LOC_Event at LOC_Event in Bihar , Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal termed it as a barbaric and inhuman act.Talking to reporters here at the information centre of Sri Harmandir Sahib complex , the Chief Minister lashed out at the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre and said the government has failed in providing internal and external security to people .17:09 pm : Lobsang Sangay deeply saddened ' at LOC_Event blastsThe Tibetan government-in-exile in Dharamsala expressed sadness over the series of blasts at the Mahabodhi temple area in Bihar 's LOC_Event town.I am deeply saddened to learn about the series of bomb blasts at LOC_Event . My prayers for the injured and their family members , prime minister-in-exile Lobsang Sangay said in a statement . 16 : 54 pm : Third live bomb found near Mahabodhi TempleA third live bomb has been spotted at a hotel near LOC_Event in LOC_Event , said news reports . Police are attempting to defuse the explosive . 16:45 pm : Is violence part of plan to disturb states ? asks Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wondered if the violent acts were a game plan before elections to disturb states , regional parties and also to plan to murder some political leaders.I am shocked to know about the sad incident of bomb blast at LOC_Event today ( Sunday ) . What is our central government doing ? What about central agencies who usually interfere in state business but do not take care of safety and security of our people and country ? Banerjee said in a post on a social networking site.Is it a game plan before Lok Sabha elections to disturb states , regional parties and also to plan murder of some political leaders , so that nobody can raise the voice of people in future ? Or is it a blame game to avoid responsibility and to finish the regional political parties who are not dependent on the UPA ( United Progressive Alliance ) ? Banerjee added .16:30 pm : LOC_Event blasts not of high intensity , says Bihar Police chiefThe nine blasts at the LOC_Event in Bihar 's LOC_Event town were not of very high intensity and therefore no damage was caused to the sanctum sanctorum , Bihar Police chief Abhayanand said.The explosions were not of high intensity ... somewhere between low and high intensity , Abhayanand said while addressing the media persons.No damage has been caused to the sanctum sanctorum of the temple , he added .16.00 pm : Centre tells states to tighten security at Buddhist shrinesThe Centre has directed all states to ensure fool-proof security at Buddhist shrines and Tibetan settlements in the wake of the continuing violence between Rohingya Muslims and Buddhists in Myanmar.In an advisory to all states with special emphasis on cities like Delhi , Mumbai , Kolkata , Ahmedabad , Chennai , Bangalore , Hyderabad and Pune , the Home Ministry said adequate security must be provided to Buddhist shrines , Buddhist places of worships and Tibetian settlements.Citing recent intelligence inputs , the Ministry said radical terrorist groups were planning to target Buddhist installations , including LOC_Event , which was today rocked by serial blasts , injuring two monks.This is perhaps the first time that the Centre has issued an advisory about possible violence in the wake of the clashes in Myanmar . 15.48 pm : Nitish condemns blasts , seeks CISF security for templeBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar strongly condemned the serial blasts in and around LOC_Event in LOC_Event and demanded deployment of the Central Industrial Security Force ( CISF ) to protect the world famous Buddhist shrine.The serial blasts deserve strongest condemnation in strongest possible words as the perpetrators targeted the place of religious faith of crores of people with an aim to create fear among them , he told reporters after inspecting the blast sites at the LOC_Event and surrounding areas in LOC_Event district with senior civil and police officials.Kumar , however , dismissed suggestions that there was any security lapse and said adequate precautionary measures were taken to beef up security measures at the LOC_Event and surrounding areas in the wake of intelligence inputs . 15.15 pm : Protests in Nagpur over LOC_Event serial blastsA large number of supporters and followers of B R Ambedkar and others on Sunday staged a demonstration here to protest the serial blasts at the world famous pilgrimage town of LOC_Event in Bihar.Holding placards , banners and Panchsheel flags , the protesters gathered at the Reserve Bank square ( Samvidhan Chowk ) in the city and condemned the blasts.They shouted slogans and stopped vehicular traffic , which was then diverted from the square.Some Buddhists monks were also part of the demonstration , police and eye witnesses said . 14.47 pm : Security alert sounded at Indo-Nepal borderAn alert has been sounded on the Indo-Nepal border after nine serial explosions rocked the internationally renowned temple town of LOC_Event in Bihar.District Magistrate K V Pandiyan said police and Sashastra Seema Bal ( SSB ) have been alerted after the terror attack and they have been asked to maintain a vigil on the border . 14.08 pm : BJP criticises Nitish over LOC_Event bombingsTwo weeks after the 17-year-old alliance between the BJP and the Janata Dal-United snapped , the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) said the Nitish Kumar-led government has to answer why it did not take any action despite being warned that terror modules were planning to attack the 1,500-year-old temple annually visited by millions from across the world.BJP spokesperson Ravi Shankar Prasad said : We deeply condemn the dastardly attacks . The LOC_Event presents the very idea of India in one way , where Gautam Buddha attained self-realisation ... a place of immense spiritual importance.There had been repeated intelligence inputs about possible terror attacks . The state government had also been told about recces that had been conducted by terror elements of the place , especially in context of the violence in Myanmar , said Prasad , referring to the sectarian violence in Myanmar where scores of people have been killed in unrest between Buddhists and Muslims in Rakhine state.There were warnings , but no preventive action was taken ... Why ? asked Prasad.He said the threat of terrorism looming over the country is immense from the Lashkar-e-Taiba . Those who are trying to control the Intelligence Bureau for vote bank politics should think about this , he added . 14.00 pm : Security has been beefed up at major temples in Jharkhand in the wake of serial blasts rocking Bihar 's famous LOC_Event at LOC_Event town Sunday morning , police said.The temples where security has been stepped up include Deoghar 's Shiva temple , Parasnath temple in Giridih , Rajrappa temple in Ramgarh and the temples dedicated to Goddess Deori , Lord Shiva and Jagannath in the state capital Ranchi . 13.54 pm : Security beefed up at Mahavir temple in PatnaSecurity has been beefed up at the Mahavir Temple near Patna railway junction in the wake of the serial blasts in Bodh Gaya.Additional Director General of Police ( ADG ) , Law and Order , S K Bharadwaj said a section of the police force was deployed at the temple.Patna senior superintendent of police ( SSP ) Manu Maharaj said that additional security , including anti-sabotage team was deployed at the temple and its surrounding areas.Additional policemen have been deployed as a precautionary measure and the dog squad was put into service to sanitise the temple premises , he said . 13.40 pm : NIA to probe LOC_Event blasts , says Nitish KumarBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) would conduct a probe into the serial blasts in the LOC_Event at LOC_Event town , and the CISF would be deployed for fool-proof security in the area.CISF is the top security force and suitable to protect the LOC_Event temple , he said , adding that in view of the serial blasts , the government would heighten security in the area.The Bihar chief minister said the temple would open again soon for pilgrims and tourists , and added that local police had already begun investigations . 13.00 pm : Home Ministry says no Al-Qaeda link in LOC_Event blasts 12.45 pm : LOC_Event blast accused to be questioned on LOC_Event terror attack 12.34 pm : LOC_Event bombing seems like terror attack : R.P.N. SinghIt does seem like a terror attack but we can not give any details till the investigation is done . No ( terrorist ) outfit has claimed responsibility for the attacks , Minister of State for Home Affairs R.P.N. Singh said.According to the home ministry , the blasts took place in quick succession between 5.30 a.m. and 6 a.m. in the temple complex and near the LOC_Event , but there was no damage to the temple or the Bodhi tree.Till the investigations are over , we would not like to make any statement . If there were any shortcomings in following up IB ( Intelligence Bureau ) alerts , it will be looked into as a part of the investigation , Singh added .12.02 pm : Mahabodhi temple blast cowardly attack : ModiGujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi said the serial blasts in LOC_Event in LOC_Event district in Bihar is a cowardly attack.Cowardly attack on LOC_Event is a matter of great sadness for the people of India and the Buddhist community around the world , Modi tweeted . 11.52 am : President condemns LOC_Event blasts as senseless terror actPresident Pranab Mukherjee on Sunday condemned the serial blasts at LOC_Event in LOC_Event as a senseless act of violence to target innocent pilgrims.Expressing deep anguish over the blasts , he said it was a senseless act of violence targeting innocent pilgrims and monks who had gathered to worship at this temple dedicated to the great apostle of peace - Gautam Buddha.Asking people to maintain calm and restraint , he asked them to cooperate with the authorities in bringing the perpetrators to justice .11.45 am : Attacks on religious places wo n't be tolerated : PMPrime Minister Manmohan Singh Sunday strongly condemned the serial blasts in and around the LOC_Event in LOC_Event and said such attacks on religious places will never be tolerated.-I wish speedy recovery to the injured.-India 's composite culture and traditions teach us respect for all religions and such attacks on religious places will never be tolerated . 9.52 am : LOC_Event serial blasts a terror attack : Home MinistrySerial explosions inside and outside LOC_Event in Bihar were a terror attack , the Home Ministry said on Sunday as it sent National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) and National Security Guard ( NSG ) teams for post-blasts investigations.It was a terror attack , Union Home Secretary Anil Goswami told PTI.He , however , said so far no group has claimed responsibility for the multiple blasts and investigations were on.Goswami said four blasts took place inside the temple complex while four occurred outside it.Two people have been injured in the blasts hich took place between 5:30 to 5:58 am.Arvind Singh , a member of Mahabodhi Temple Management Commitee said the two injured included a national of Myanmar and another of Tibet . They have been admitted to Magadh Medical College and Hospital , he said.Singh said two other bombs , one near the 80 feet statue and one at bus stand have been defused.Additional Director General of Police ( Law and Order ) S K Bhardwaj said prima facie it seems the serial blasts have been done by some terrorist organisation.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and DGP Abhyanand have reached for LOC_Event by road.Gaya is a Maoist stronghold . DIG Special Branch Parasnath told PTI said , A team of NIA officers is coming to LOC_Event from Kolkata.The ADG said that there was a general alert about possibility of terrorist attacks in Bihar and the state police have tightened security.At LOC_Event temple , the police security arrangements are only outside the temple while the security inside is looked after by temple trust officials , he said.The DIG said , The sanctum sanctorum of the LOC_Event is intact . The temple premises have been sanitised.The secretary of the LOC_Event committee Dorji said , There were four blasts inside the temple premises.Fortunately , there was no damage to the LOC_Event or the main temple structure.In the first blast which took place near the LOC_Event , a table was blown up because of which two persons were injured . The second blast , I think , was inside the enclosure where books were kept . The furniture was damaged but there was no damage to the monuments or statues , he said.Asked about the nature of explosives used , S K Bharadwaj , ADG ( Law and Order ) said they were low intensity time bombs.He said , We got information about six-seven months back that there may be a terror attack on the Mahabodhi temple.After that we had beefed up secuirty and deployed extra forces.Bodh Gaya Buddhist temple , around 10 km from LOC_Event and 100 km from capital Patna , is world famous . Lord Buddha had attained enlightenment here under the Mahabodhi tree in the temple premises.The LOC_Event is frequented by Buddhist pilgrims from Sri Lanka , China and Japan and the whole of southeast Asia.Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama makes frequent trips to LOC_Event and Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa had visited it six months back . A total of 52 countries have established their monasteries here . . Shocked and saddened by the serial blasts that rocked the Mahabodhi temple in LOC_Event district , the All India Bhiku Sangha , a national organisation of Buddhist monks has condemned the incident as an attack on messengers of peace . Buddhist monks all over the country feel saddened by the attack . The international community is also shaken . We try to put people on the right path and we have been made the target of a terror attack . The All India Bhiku Sangha condemns this attack . This should not have happened . We spread the message of peace across the world . This is an attempt to spread terror and create discord among the messengers of peace , Bhante Sadanand Mahasthaver , chairman of the Sangha , told The Hindu on phone from Maharashtras Wardha district . Mr. Bhante Sadanand said a likely impact of the conflict in Myanmar can not be ruled out as a possible reason for targeting the Buddhist community in this fashion . LOC_Event is the site that sent the message of peace to the world . Its a sacred site . It was the fountainhead of enlightenment and knowledge and education to the world . Many universities and centers of learning sprang from this site . Although India is lagging behind in education , it is considered to be gurudesh -LSB- teacher country -RSB- . There were many Buddhist Universities here once and India was the leader in education , Bhante Sadanand said . Mahabodhi temple at LOC_Event is a world heritage site - inscribed in 2002 . LOC_Event is associated with the enlightenment of Lord Buddha ( 566-486 B.C. ) . The sacred Bodhi tree under which he is believed to have attained enlightenment . The place is highly venerated by the Buddhists . NEW DELHI : Rajya Sabha today condemned the serial bomb blasts at Mahabodhi temple in LOC_Event district of LOC_Event and the Maoists attack on a convoy of Congress leaders in Chhattisgarh that led former Union minister V C Shukla and senior party leader Mahendra Karma dead . Chairman Hamid Ansari described the July 7 terrorist attack on Mahabodhi temple as senseless act of violence and said the attack on a world heritage site and holiest seat for Buddhists was a cause of anguish and deep concern to all . . . He mentioned of the May 26 Maoist ambush on a convoy of Congress leaders in a dense forest in Chhattisgarh 's Jagdalpur district that left 27 persons dead including senior party leader Karma and Shukla . Ansari also made a reference to the killing of six persons including the Superintendent of Police of Pakur district , Amarjit Balihar , in a Maoists attack in Jharkhand on July 2 . Loss of so many innocent lives was indeed tragic and unfortunate , he said , adding such dastardly attacks and acts of violence must be condemned in strongest term . . . Mentioning of death of 23 children due to food poisoning after consuming midday meal at a school in Bihar , Ansari said the loss was painful and sad . The Chairman also made a reference to flash floods and landslides in Uttarakhand killing 580 persons and injuring 4,473 persons while 5,526 persons were still missing . Floods in several parts of Andhra Pradesh , Assam , Bihar , Maharashtra , Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh damaged infrastructure , he noted , adding , loss of so many precious lives in these natural disasters is unfortunate and sad . . . The House also congratulated recent sporting feats including Indian cricket team winning the ICC Champions Trophy . Upset over the recent explosions at the famed LOC_Event in LOC_Event , LOC_Event , Buddhists in Siliguri , West Bengal , staged silent protests . From women to children , the Buddhist protestors demanded more safety for their religious centres in India . The secretary of the All Buddhist Organisations of North-Bengal , Sonal Lama , said : This rally has been organised to protest against the explosions inside the Mahabodhi Temple of LOC_Event on July 7 by all the Buddhist groups in North Bengal . . . Ten bombs exploded at the LOC_Event , where the Buddha is believed to have attained enlightenment . Two persons were injured in the incidents , in what the government described as a terror attack . The LOC_Event was declared a world heritage site by UNESCO in 2002 . . Over 100 Buddhist monks associated with the Mahabodhi Society of India staged a protest at Metro Channel in the Esplanade area here on Sunday condemning the serial blasts at LOC_Event in Bihar . Similar protests would be held in the next few days , said Anand Kumar Barua , a member of the Societys governing body . We had never imagined that such an incident will happen in the complex where Lord Buddha attainted enlightenment . Buddhism is a religion of peace . Such an incident goes against our faith and our belief in non-violence , Mr. Barua told The Hindu . Staff Reporter . 8.13 am : One more detained in Bihar , raids on . . Patna Police have detained another suspect from Motihari , Bihar for his alleged involvement in the serial blasts at LOC_Event on Sunday . According to reports , Tabish was arrested early this morning and police raids are on . More details are awaited . On Tuesday , three bombs were found each near the Police Information Room , in childrens park and a place opposite the Magadh Mahila College , all on LOC_Event , Deputy Superintendent of Police ( City ) Manoj Kumar Tiwari said . Later in the day . two more bombs were recovered from the park and the place opposite the college , police sources told PTI . In view of more bombs being found , Patna District Magistrate N Sharvan Kumar said permission will not be given to the Communist Party of India-Marxist-Leninists ( CPI-ML ) proposed Khabardar rally that was suppose to be organised at the same venue today . Updates for 29 October end . . 12.15 pm : One more bomb recovered in LOC_Event . . Police have found another live bomb in LOC_Event , near the Gandhi Maidan police station . Police are reportedly trying to defuse the bomb . Preliminary reports coming in said that the discovered bomb was similar to the devices that exploded across LOC_Event on the day of Narendra Modi 's rally . The bombs , which are believed to have been planted by the Indian Mujahideen , reportedly have the same kind of timer device as the LOC_Event blasts . The only similarity between the IEDs used in LOC_Event and those in LOC_Event was the timer device - a Lotus brand watch . The make of the bombs was different , as the LOC_Event bombs were not very neatly prepared , a senior officer told the Indian Express . 11.47 am : Nitish Kumar will meet me tomorrow , says Shinde . . Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde who was supposed to travel to LOC_Event today , said that he did not make the trip there as Nitish Kumar had another meeting . Speaking to reporters , Shinde said that the Bihar Chief Minister would meet him in Delhi tomorrow . ( Wednesday ) . . Shinde also reiterated the fact that the Bihar state government had received intelligence inputs from the centre , on specific threats to political rallies . Nitish Kumar 's government originally said that they did not receive any central intelligence input and later said that whatever inputs they had received were much too generic . 10.35 am : Bihar govt wants LOC_Event blasts probe handed over to NIA . . The Bihar government has written to the centre and asked that the LOC_Event blasts be handed over to the National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) , CNN-IBN reported . The request comes even as state security and investigative teams have come under fire for providing sub standard security to Narendra Modi 's LOC_Event rally that was targeted by several low intensity blasts . Although Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has vigorously defended the security arrangements for the Hunkar rally , central intelligence agencies are reportedly begging to differ . According to this report in theTimes of India : . . Sources said though there were no specific inputs , Bihar government was told about possible threats to the Narendra Modi rally.Still , security was so lax that even anti-sabotage checks , a routine in such rallies , were not done . Even policemen were not found in adequate numbers around the venue while several peripheral sections of the venue were seen guarded by private security . TheIndian Expressnoted , . . What baffled the central agencies is the way the police handled the spots where these explosions were reported . Unlike the standard practice after the blasts , the areas were not cordoned off which resulted in loss of vital clues . Also , although the police have a bomb disposal squad , there are not enough personnel to comb the area . The police used lathis and bare hands to pick packets suspected to contain IEDs . . . For his part , Nitish said , . . There were no intelligence inputs either from the Centre or from the state . Whatever was possible to do for this kind of a programme , the administration had done . Security was tightened keeping in mind the BJP rally . Senior police officials had personally monitored the security arrangements at LOC_Event , . . This has since been denied by both the Congress and BJP . Meanwhile more shocking news about the manner in which the blasts were handled are emerging . This report inThe Hinduquotedmany of the victims as saying thatpeople had alerted the police when they spotted the explosive devices , but the police took no step whatsoever to move people to safety . Furthermore it has been revealed that people had tried to defuse the bombs by throwing stones at them . The Home Ministry has asked the Bihar government for a report into the incident . Concerned over the blast at the LOC_Event and recovery of two more crude bombs , the Ministry told the state government to send a report about the nature of the bomb , suspected persons or organisations which could be behind it and steps taken to maintain law and order , PTIsaid , quoting official sources . Bihar BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi has said that the LOC_Event blasts happened because of criminal negligence ' and said that the lax security at the event felt deliberate ' . Speaking toCNN-IBN , Modi said , This is criminal negligence and it seems deliberate . The CM ( Nitish Kumar ) wanted to ignore Modi and so he had a callous attitude towards the rally . No jammer or SUV or proper security was provided at the event . 10.00 am : LOC_Event bombers worked in teams , say police . . With more information about how the LOC_Event blasts were ochestrated coming out , police now say that they believe that as many as six bombers worked in three teams to carry out the attacks . Two of the six bombers have been arrested , including one Imtiaz Ansari , whowas caught while allegedly trying to flee after the blast at the LOC_Event station . The second suspect , Mohammed Imtiaz was produced in court on Monday night and sent to seven days judicial custody . According to the Indian Express , the bombers had split up into three teams of two bombers each , after coming to LOC_Event by bus from Ranchi . According to the newspaper report : . . According to police , Imtiaz , who was arrested by the Railway Protection Force after the battery bomb exploded injuring his partner Tariq alias Anul , had a piece of paper with seven mobile phone numbers on it . It was Imtiaz who provided police with all the initial leads . Police may consider flying Tariq to Delhi for treatment . Tehseen and Haider were in the second team , and Taufiq and Niman in the third , SSP Maharaj said . By the time Anul and Imtiaz were arrested , their associates had planted pipe bombs at LOC_Event . Maharaj said Imtiaz had told interrogators that their brief was to create panic and trigger a stampede . 9.22 am : Police arrest second suspect . . National Investigation Agency sources have told CNN-IBN that now there are two potential suspects in the 27 October LOC_Event serial blasts case . A second suspect , Mohammed Imtiaz , was produced in court on Monday night and has been sent to seven days of police remand . Indian Mujahideen commander Tehseen Akhtar has emerged as the main suspect in Sunday 's blasts that killed six people including a person who is believed to have been injured while planting a bomb , with some reports indicating that he may have personally supervised the blasts . Meanwhile according to this report , Akhtar was very close to being apprehended in his Mangalore home , but managed to escape after he received information that Bhatkal had been arrested . 8.15 am : Forget Shinde 's music launch , Why did Modi continue LOC_Event rally ? asks Khurshid . . Union Minister Salman Khurshid has defended Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde for attending a Bollywood film music launch a few hours after the blasts . Shinde has a life beyond LOC_Event ... and the awful thing that happened . The law and order was the responsibility of the state government and if the state government was to ask Shinde or the Home Ministry to take over something , he would be there on the phone , he said , according to PTI . Criticising Modi for going ahead with the rally despite the blasts , the External Affairs Minister said after an event like this happens , you should give up whatever happens . The script was not changed . Was the rally suspended or given up ? . . The Union Minister slammed Modi saying that instead of attending to those injured in the blasts he went ahead with the rally . Should you not attend to people who were hurt ? Should you not try to find out what has happened ? He continued with his speech ... much worse ... much worse , he said . He said there was no word about the people who died or what had happened because it was not in his script . The union minister also took on Modi for criticising the Congress party on the issue of dynasty politics . Referring to Maneka and Varun Gandhi , he said the ( Gandhi ) family that irks Modi so much are also a part of BJP . There is a very eminent leader in BJP Mrs Maneka Gandhi and Mr Varun Gandhi , a young and bright general secretary of the party . For him ( Modi ) , if you leave Congress , then you are not a part of the family but if you are in Congress , then your are a part of the ( Gandhi ) family . . . 7.45 am : LOC_Event blasts were aimed at killing women , children . . One of the alleged Indian Mujahideen operatives arrested by police in the wake of the LOC_Event blasts , has reportedly told authorities that the blasts were to avenge the dead in Muzaffarnagar , and the objective was to create a stampede that would kill many women and children ' . A report in the Times of India said that operative Imitiaz Ansari had told police that Many Muslims got killed in Muzaffarnagar and all that you people do is offer namaz . He had also said that the objective of the blasts were to trigger panic so that women and children would get killed in the rush . -- end of updates for 28 October -- . . 9.50 pm : Two FIRs lodged in connection with LOC_Event blasts . . Two FIRs have been lodged in connection with the serial blasts in the state capital that left six persons dead and scores others injured , police said today . The FIRs have been registered at the GRP police station at the Patna Railway Junction and the Gandhi Maidan police station in connection with yesterday 's blasts , Additional Director General of Police ( Headquarters ) Ravindra Kumar told reporters . He , however , did not give details of the FIR . 9.12 pm : Shinde may not visit LOC_Event tomorrow . . Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde is unlikely to visit LOC_Event tomorrow as announced earlier due to non-availability of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar . Shinde will not visit LOC_Event as Kumar has some prior engagement , forcing the Home Minister to cancel his trip , sources said . The Chief Minister is expected to travel to Delhi on Wednesday when he and the Home Minister will meet and review the law and order situation in Bihar in the wake of multiple blasts in LOC_Event yesterday that so far claimed six lives . Instead of Shinde , Union Home Secretary Anil Goswami and other senior officials will visit LOC_Event tomorrow and take stock of the situation there . Earlier in the day , Shinde said he would visit LOC_Event tomorrow to asses the situation there . I will review the situation in LOC_Event tomorrow . It is premature to say anything about the blast now as investigation is still going on , he had said . 6.57 pm : BJP slams Shinde over LOC_Event blasts . . BJP today criticised Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde for attending a music launch function of a soon-to-be-released Bollywood movie a few hours after multiple blasts in LOC_Event , saying it has become a habit of Union Ministers not to give any attention to better governance . BJP spokesperson Siddarth Nath Singh said when the 26/11 LOC_Event terror attack had happened , the then Home Minister was seen frequently changing his clothes before speaking to the media . And now when serial blasts took place at Hunkar rally in LOC_Event , Shinde was at the music launch function . It has become a habit of Congress ministers not to give any attention to better governance but give more emphasis on their clothes and music , he said . Shinde had yesterday attended the music launch of film Rajjo ' starring Kangana Ranaut in LOC_Event , a few hours after serial blasts rocked a rally in LOC_Event which was attended by BJP 's Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi . It is shocking to find the Home Minister entertaining himself in a music function instead of monitoring the situation after the serial blasts , another BJP spokesperson Nirmala Sitharaman said . The Home Minister has not yet said anything about his presence in the music launch function . 5.04 pm : We had no intelligence inputs , says LOC_Event ADG . . LOC_Event ADG Ravindra Kumar today denied any specific intelligence input on any terrorist attack on the occasion of Narendra Modi 's Hunkaar rally . There was no specific input by the IB on the terror attack , Kumar said and added that the police always receives general inputs . He refused to divulge on details of the investigations into the LOC_Event blast . The investigation is going in the right direction , he said . 3.59 pm : Bihar govt was casual and callous : Arun Jaitley . . Arun Jaitley condemned the LOC_Event blasts and slammed the Nitish Kumar government over the serial blasts yesterday . He said that there were no senior police officers present at the venue . We did not know what to do when the blasts were happening , there was no senior officer to guide us , Jaitley said and added , We were faced with the dilemma on what to announce . We could have sparked a stampede . . . He said that it was the responsibility of the state to arrange for frisking and metal detectors , none of which was done at the rally . Attitude of Bihar government was casual and callous , Jaitley said . While Nitish Kumar has denied any IB inputs on the blasts , Jaitley said , We had received information that the IB had warned of a possble threat to the rally on 23 October . . . Jaitley also said that Gujarat police officers present with them had warned them not to go to the venue . 3.00 pm : Nitish Kumar reviews progress of LOC_Event blasts investigation . . Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has reviewed the progress made in the probe into the serial blasts at LOC_Event which claimed six lives , PTI said , quoting official sources . Kumar directed the officials to expedite the probe and bring to book the culprits at the earliest , the sources said . Chief Secretary AK Sinha , Director General of Police Abhayanand and other senior administrative and police officials were present at the high-level meeting with the Chief Minister.The Chief Minister was briefed about the progress made in the probe and the overall law and order situation in the state . The Chief Minister later left for Rajgir to attend two-day Chintan Shivir ' of the JD ( U ) during which he was expected to outline his party 's political strategies , the sources said . 2:10 pm : Shinde to visit LOC_Event tomorrow , says Modi 's security adequate . . After a briefing from the Intelligence Bureau chief , Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde emerged and said that he will be travelling to LOC_Event tomorrow to take stock of the situation following the blasts . He also said that there was no question of not having provided adequate security to the BJP 's Prime Ministerial candidate . The Indian government has provided Modi with the security he requires , Shinde said . 1:40 pm : Intelligence Bureau chief briefs Home Minister on LOC_Event blasts . . Times Now reports that the Intelligence Bureau chief is meeting with the Home Minister to brief him on the LOC_Event blasts which took place yesterday . 1.25 pm : BJP is biggest beneficiary of blasts and riots , says Digvijaya . . Congress general secretary Digvijaya Singh has said that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is responsible for the LOC_Event blasts , saying that he needed to be blamed for the breakdown of law and order that led to the blasts in LOC_Event . However , in a hugely controversial comment , he sought to justify an earlier tweet , that the timing of the blasts would benefit Narendra Modi and the BJP , saying that one political partyreally benefits from these activities ' , adding that whether it was a terrorist attack or a communal riot , the BJP was always the beneficiary of such violence . He denied however , that his comments had politicised the blasts , saying that he condemned all forms of violence . He also refused to admit that in hindsight , his tweet was ill advised . The tweet is below : . . Another blast in LOC_Event ! Strongly condemn this . Nitish should find the culprit otherwise a perfect setting for Modi 's Launch in Bihar ! . . digvijaya singh ( @digvijaya_28 ) October 27 , 2013 . . Singh added that if he was Chief Minister of the state , such an incident would never have happened . 12.35 pm : LOC_Event blasts were the result of criminal negligence : Sushil Modi . . Bihar BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi has said that the LOC_Event blasts happened because of criminal negligence ' and said that the lax security at the event felt deliberate ' . Speaking to CNN-IBN , Modi said , This is criminal negligence and it seems deliberate . The CM ( Nitish Kumar ) wanted to ignore Modi and so he had a callous attitude towards the rally . No jammer or SUV or proper security was provided at the event . He added that the Bihar government had tried to ignore the rally and had taken it lightly as a result . The CM made it a point to not be in LOC_Event and ignored it because of hispersonal enmity against Modi , he said . 12:05 pm : Bihar CM holds emergency meet . . Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is presently holding an emergency meet to assess the damage caused by the serial blasts in LOC_Event . 12:00 pm : Security should be provided for our rallies , BJP tells Election Commission . . Apart from Rahul Gandhi , the BJP has also appealed to the Election Commission that is should be able to conduct its rallies in states in the run up to the polls without any risk to its activists . In other states where elections will take place . Security arrangements for them should be in place and we have appealed that we should be able to hold rallies safely without any risk to our activists , Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi told reporters outside Election Commission . 11.52 am : Delhi police special cell gets custody of Bhatkal . . The Delhi police special cell has got custody of key Indian Mujahideen operative Yasin Bhatkal . The NIA had also sought custody of Bhatkal in connection with the LOC_Event blasts . The agency earlier confirmed that the Indian Mujahideen was most likely responsible for the series of low intensity blasts that killed at least five people and injured close to 100 at a BJP rally in LOC_Event . 11.14 am : NIA confirms Indian Mujahideen carried out LOC_Event blasts . . The National Intelligence Agency ( NIA ) has confirmed that the Indian Mujahideen was behind the Patna blasts . They have also reportedly sought custody of key IM operative Yasin Bhatkal who was arrested in August this year . Earlier , Bihar police had said that one of the suspects they had caught in connection with the attacks , had confessed that the IM had been behind the attack to take revenge for the Muzaffarnagar riots . Subsequently , CNN-IBNreportedthat Tehseen Akhtar , who is the right hand man of arrested IM mentor Yasin Bhatkal , has emerged as the prime suspect behind the attack . Aktar alias Monu had taken over the Darbhanga module after Bhatkal 's arrest . Sources further added that interrogators feel the attack was carried by Akhtar to take revenge for Bhatkal 's arrest . However , they also added that this inputs are based on preliminary inquiries , the report added . 10.58 am : BJP to meet Election Commission to discuss Modi 's security . . The BJP is scheduled to meet the Election Commission to discuss the issue of its Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi 's security following a series of blasts near the venue of his Hunkar rally . Apart from Modi 's security , the party will also lodge a complaint against Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi 's claim that the BJP was responsible for the Muzaffarnagar riots . The EC meet comes even as the NIA confirmed the involvement of the Indian Mujahideen . Meanwhile Medical Superintendent of the LOC_Event hospital , Amarkant Jha told ANI News that apart from 38 people who were still receiving treatment , the rest of the 102 people brought in with injuries from the blasts had been discharged . Thesituation is under control . Five patients are critical , they will be kept under observation , the rest can be discharged in 1-2days , he added / . . Meanwhile LOC_Event SSP Manu Maharaj confirmed to CNN-IBN that aroundfour people had been detained , and that police were verifying their address and status . Only one person has confessed till now we are zeroing on him , he told the channel . 10.00 am : Shinde under fire for attending music concert despite blasts . . Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde is coming under fire from opposition members for choosing to attend a music concert in LOC_Event after the LOC_Event blasts had taken place . The Times Now television channel reported that Shinde had attended the concert just three hours after the explosions had taken place . Instead of controlling the situation , he chose to attend a music launch . This is similar to what happened in 26/11 when the state home minister said that such things happen in big cities , a BJP spokesman said . Shinde has reportedly justified his decision by saying that he had been in touch with security officials and was informed about what was going on . During the event , he told the audience that he had requested the organisers of the event to hold it close to the airport . I have to rush to Delhi because you all know what happened in LOC_Event , he said . Meanwhile the Home Ministry has issued a security alert to all states and union territories in the wake of the LOC_Event blasts . 8.45 am : Injured suspect succumbs to injuries . . One of the suspects in the LOC_Event blast , who was critically injured in one of the blasts , has succumbed to his injuries . The man had been earlier identified as oneAinul , and it was believed that he had been injured while attempting to plant one of the bombs . He had been in the ICU of one of the city hospitals . The police are currently interrogating a man identified as Imtiaz Ansari who was caught as he was trying to plant more bombs . According to the Times of India , Ansari , a resident of Ranchi , was apprehended at the railway station just after the first two bombs went off . He was apparently planning to plant some more bombs but panicked when he saw the police and bomb disposal squad . On being challenged , he tried to flee but was arrested . 7.30 am : Bihar security found to be lacking . . The LOC_Event blasts which killed five people and injured close to 100 has put the Nitish Kumar government under the scanner . And although Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has vigorously defended the security arrangements for the Hunkar rally , central intelligence agencies are reportedly begging to differ . According to this report in the Times of India : . . Sources said though there were no specific inputs , Bihar government was told about possible threats to the Narendra Modi rally.Still , security was so lax that even anti-sabotage checks , a routine in such rallies , were not done . Even policemen were not found in adequate numbers around the venue while several peripheral sections of the venue were seen guarded by private security . The Indian Express noted , . . What baffled the central agencies is the way the police handled the spots where these explosions were reported . Unlike the standard practice after the blasts , the areas were not cordoned off which resulted in loss of vital clues . Also , although the police have a bomb disposal squad , there are not enough personnel to comb the area . The police used lathis and bare hands to pick packets suspected to contain IEDs . . . For his part , Nitish said , . . There were no intelligence inputs either from the Centre or from the state . Whatever was possible to do for this kind of a programme , the administration had done . Security was tightened keeping in mind the BJP rally . Senior police officials had personally monitored the security arrangements at Gandhi Maidan , . . Meanwhile more shocking news about the manner in which the blasts were handled are emerging . This report in The Hindu quoted many of the victims as saying thatpeople had alerted the police when they spotted the explosive devices , but the police took no step whatsoever to move people to safety . Furthermore it has been revealed that people had tried to defuse the bombs by throwing stones at them . The Home Ministry has asked the Bihar government for a report into the incident . Concerned over the blast at the Patna Railway Station and recovery of two more crude bombs , the Ministry told the state government to send a report about the nature of the bomb , suspected persons or organisations which could be behind it and steps taken to maintain law and order , PTIsaid , quoting official sources . Security has been beefed up in the city after the attacks . 6.30 am : Indian Mujahideen responsible for blasts . . Bihar police have confirmed that the Indian Mujahideen were responsible for the eight blasts in LOC_Event on Sunday that have killed at least five and injured close to 100 people . This report in the Times of India states that four alleged operatives of the outfit have been detained , one of whom is in critical condition after being caught in a blast . During interrogation , they reportedly told the police that they had staged the attack in retaliation for the Muzaffarnagar riots . They are also said to have named the IM module involved in the LOC_Event blasts , the TOI report added . According to the Hindu , one of the alleged operatives is named Imtiaz Ansari , who was caught while allegedly trying to flee after the blast at the station . He has subsequently confessed to his role in the attack . Meanwhile CNN-IBN reported that Tehseen Akhtar , who is the right hand man of arrested IM mentor Yasin Bhatkal , has emerged as the prime suspect behind the attack . Aktar alias Monu had taken over the Darbhanga module after Bhatkal 's arrest . Sources further added that interrogators feel the attack was carried by Akhtar to take revenge for Bhatkal 's arrest . However , they also added that this inputs are based on preliminary inquiries , the report added . -- end of updates for 27 October -- . . 7.42 pm : NIA , NSG teams rushed to blast sites , says Shinde . . NIA and NSG teams have rushed to the blasts sites in LOC_Event , Union Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde said in LOC_Event on Sunday . There were five blasts in and around LOC_Event in LOC_Event where five people were killed and 72 people were injured . I am in contact with the Bihar government , Shinde told reporters in LOC_Event on the sidelines of a function . Shinde also informed that the NIA team stationed at LOC_Event in Bihar in connection with the July bombings was also being rushed to the site of explosions in LOC_Event . When asked if it was a terror strike , the Home Minister evaded a direct reply , saying he was giving whatever information he had with him . 7.17 pm : PM , President condemn serial blasts in LOC_Event . . President Pranab Mukherjee and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh Sunday condemned the serial blasts in LOC_Event and called upon authorities to speedily investigate and punish the perpetrators . Expressing deep concern , the president called upon people to maintain calm and restraint . The nation must remain united in its firm resolve to fight against all forms of terror and violence which have no place in a civilised society , he said . The prime minister spoke to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on telephone and called for immediate and firm action . He called for urgent steps to identify and take action against those responsible . He also assured the chief minister of all central assistance in the investigations , the Prime Minister Office 's said in an official statement . At least five people were killed and more than 70 injured as seven bombs exploded in LOC_Event Sunday , six of them in and around the ground where BJP 's prime minister candidate Narendra Modi , hours later , addressed a rally . 6.35 pm : Three dead identified says Bihar DGP . . The Bihar DGP today said that three out of fived dead have been identified . They are - Ramnarayan Singh of Patna , Vikas Singh from Kaimur and Munna Singh from LOC_Event . Correction : We regret putting up an earlier update where we mentioned the three deceased as suspects because of an erroneous report . Here are the details of blasts so far as given by Bihar DGP Abhayanand . . 9.30 am -- LOC_Event , LOC_Event ( washroom ) 11.40 am -- LOC_Event near LOC_Event 12.05 pm -- LOC_Event 12.10 pm -- LOC_Event 12.15 pm -- LOC_Event 12.20 pm -- LOC_Event 12.45 pm -- LOC_Event . . 6.15 pm : Nitish Kumar vows to bring culprits to book . . Condemning the serial blasts in LOC_Event , Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar today said that the investigating agencies will get to the root of the blasts and bring the guilty to book . I strongly condemn the serial blasts in LOC_Event . A total of 83 people went to the Patna Medical College and Hospital for treatment . Out of them 38 were admitted . Even police personnel were injured . Blasts took place at several places apart from LOC_Event , Kumar told at a press conference in LOC_Event . Announcing an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the next of kin of the dead , the Bihar chief minister ruled out any kind of political conspiracy . We may have political difference but who will cause serial blasts for that . Bihar does not have such a tradition . It seems to be a pre-planned attack on the day of ( Gujarat Chief Minister and BJP 's prime ministerial candidate Narendra ) Modi 's rally . We should give some time to the police to finish their investigation , he said . Denying that there has been lapses in security , the chief minister said , I want to tell the BJP that there has been no attempt by the state government to not secure the place . All required steps for security were taken . The blasts are an attempt to disrupt law and order situation in Bihar . The guilty should be severely punished . The conspiracy if any will come out . We have sought NIA 's help to get to the root of the blasts . . . There was no intelligence report regarding these blasts . I assure everyone that no effort will be spared to solve the case , he said . Kumar also said that one person who was suspiciously running away from the LOC_Event has been nabbed by police and his interrogation was on . The chief minister expressed concern over the selection of the day . Selection of today 's date is questionable . The timing of the blasts is very important and very worrying . On Friday , as suspicious suitcase was found in LOC_Event and I had asked the police to step up the security . . . Kumar , however , refused to make a guess on the culprits but appealed for calm . I appeal everyone to maintain calm and peace . An appeal was also made from the dais and that is commendable , the chief minister said . Incidentally , Modi had made this appeal at the end of his speech . 5.30 pm : Modi condoles loss of lives at his LOC_Event rally . . LOC_Event : BJP prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi , whose address at the Hunkar Rally ' in LOC_Event today was preceeded by serial blasts that claimed five lives , expressed his condolences in a Facebook post soon afterwards . Blasts in LOC_Event are deeply saddening & unfortunate . Condolences with families of deceased & prayers with injured . I appeal for peace & calm , Modi wrote in his post . The Gujarat chief minister made no mention of the blasts in his hour-long speech , but at the end of it he asked the huge gathering to go back home safely ' . Five people were killed and 66 injured in six serial bomb blasts near the LOC_Event here minutes before Modi reached there to address a huge gathering . 5.20 pm : Sushma condemns blasts , hits out at Nitish govt . . I strongly condemn serial bomb blasts on the occasion of BJP rally in LOC_Event . This is gross intelligence failure . Sushma Swaraj ( @SushmaSwaraj ) October 27 , 2013 . . 5.15 pm : Another blast at LOC_Event . . An eight bomb exploded inside LOC_Event around 5.10 pm . It appeared that the explosive device was hidden under a heap of garbage and went off with a loud explosion , followed by smoke and fire around the spot . Firstpost 's Sanjay Singh who is still at the venue of Modi 's rally has this update : There are still crowds milling around LOC_Event . The police have not sanitised the area . 5.15 pm : Two suspects held , one confesses . . Soon after the blasts , Bihar Police succeeded in arresting a man whom the NIA believe is a key link to extract more information about the motive . The Union home ministry has confirmed to CNN-IBN that a few of those bombs were kept inside shallow pits in LOC_Event , the venue for Narendra Modi 's Hunkar rally . 5.05 pm : Five brought dead to hospital ' . . Ajay Kumar , who attended injured inside LOC_Event medical camp , when the blasts happened told CNN-IBN , Out of 48 injured , five people were brought dead to the hospital . . . 5.00 pm : Congress ' Shakeel Ahmed on blasts . . All the agencies should come together and investigate.Whoever is responsible for this must get , Ahmed to CNN-IBN . Blasts during Modi Ji 's 1st visit as PM hopeful to Bihar should be condemned by one & all.State govt and NIA should unearth the conspiracy . Shakeel Ahmad ( @Ahmad_Shakeel ) October 27 , 2013 . . 4.45 pm : Seven blasts ? . . As per the latest reports , there were seven blasts and over 50 injured and some of them critically . I am going to PMCH to see injured in LOC_Event bomb blast along with Ravi Shankar pd . Sushil Kumar Modi ( @SushilModi ) October 27 , 2013 . . 4.15 pm Bomb found just below the dais found . . Call it a touch of destiny , police discovered an unexploded bomb just below the dais from where the Gujarat Chief Minister and BJP 's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi addressed the rally for over an hour . As per unconfirmed ground reports , security personnel have surrounded the spot and the investigation is on . When I saw 3 blast in LOC_Event , I ranged DGP Bihar.he said that truck tyre has burst . Sushil Kumar Modi ( @SushilModi ) October 27 , 2013 . . Live bomb found in LOC_Event 's LOC_Event , BDS defusing bomb . . ANI ( @ANI_news ) October 27 , 2013 . . 3.00 pm : Ravi Shankar Prasad attacks Bihar govt . . We will ask for an enquiry . The rally was planned eight months ago at LOC_Event and yet a blast that has killed and injured people is unexpected . There has definitely been an administrative lapse , we are getting details about the blasts , BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad lashing out at the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal ( United ) government in the state . 2.45 pm : Nitish cancels LOC_Event visit after serial blasts . . Patna : Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar cancelled his scheduled tour to LOC_Event in the wake of serial blasts that rocked the state capital ahead of Narendra Modi 's address at a BJP rally today . Kumar 's carcade was ready at his 1 , Anne Marg residence to leave for the airport to fly to LOC_Event when the visit was cancelled , sources in the chief minister 's office said . The chief minister also spoke to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh over the phone about the blasts , they said . Kumar was scheduled to go to Munger and from there to Rajgir to attend two-day JD ( U ) convention in Nalanda district , the sources said . Kumar held a meeting with chief secretary AK Sinha , Director General of Police Abhyanand and principal secretary Home Amir Subhani on the law and order situation following serial bomb blasts at LOC_Event and areas near LOC_Event , the sources said . 2.35 pm : Death toll rises to five , 20 injured . . As per latest reports quoting police sources on CNN-IBN , five people have lost their lives in six serial blasts in LOC_Event . So far , 20 people have been wounded in the incidents . 2.30 pm : LOC_Event blasts extremely unfortunate : RPN Singh . . There were five blasts in LOC_Event and 20 people were injured there . We have assured the government in LOC_Event that we will provide all assistance in investigating the matter , said Union Minister of State for Home RPN Singh . 1.30 pm : Prime Minister Manmohan Singh condemns LOC_Event blasts . . The prime minister condemns the blasts which occurred at several places in LOC_Event . He appeals to the people to maintain peace and calm , the Prime Minister Office 's said on Twitter . 12.45 pm : Central team goes to LOC_Event . . A seven-member team comprising of NIA and NSG personnel have been rushed to LOC_Event by the Union home ministry to help the state government with the investigation . The team will either take a commercial flight or a special flight to the LOC_Event capital from New Delhi . 12.25 pm BREAKING : Third blast reported near LOC_Event in LOC_Event , close to Modi 's rally venue . Details awaited . . 12.10 pm : BREAKING : Second blast in LOC_Event , near Modi 's rally venue . . A second blast occurred in LOC_Event near the LOC_Event . The latest blast site is close to the venue where Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi 's is likely to address a rally at 1 pm . Four people have been reportedly injured in the blast , the Bihar Police chief Abhayanand confirmed to IBN7 . The second blast is not a crude device as the earlier one , the police chief said . The blast happened underneath a tree where people were resting to escape from the sun . Bihar Police is now seriously looking into the terror angle as it indicates towards a planned serial blasts . 12.00 pm : Timer devices in bombs . . According to the Union home ministry , two crude bombs were placed , out of which one went off while the other was detected . In a first , timer devices were attached to the bombs . 11.55 pm : Congress general secretary Digvijaya Singh tweets : . . What a coincidence blast at LOC_Event on the day of Modi 's Rally ! Challenge to Nitish Govt to find the culprit ! . . digvijaya singh ( @digvijaya_28 ) October 27 , 2013 . . 11.50 pm : Second crude bomb detected , one dead . . 11.40 am : Search on , no arrest yet : police . . Talking to reporters at the LOC_Event , LOC_Event senior superintendent of police Manu Maharaj said , The bomb disposal squad is conducting a search . We have no arrest so far . . . 11.30 am : RJD blames state government . . Starting a political blame game , Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Ramkirpal Yadav blamed the Nitish Kumar-led state government soon after the blast . There is a complete failure of law and order in LOC_Event . The state government is responsible for this lax in security . The common people are living in fear in the state . I demand that all officers who failed in their duties should be punished and there should not be a repeat of this kind of incidents , Yadav told IBN7 . Despite the rally of BJP , the state government did not take addional security measures , the parliamentarian said . 11.20 am : The Ministry for Home Affairs has sough report from the Bihar government seeking details of the blast . 11.15 am : Injured man to be questioned . . Police authorities in LOC_Event said they are investigating whether the bomb exploded while it was being placed or ferried and whether it was meant to explode at the Narendra Modi rally in LOC_Event later today . 11 am : Bomb explosion at LOC_Event , one hurt . . One person sustained serious injuries when a crude bomb exploded at LOC_Event railway station around 10 am on Sunday , just three hours before the Bharatiya Janata Partys Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi is scheduled to speak at the partys biggest ever rally in the city . Unconfirmed reports suggested that the bomb disposal squad was searching the area for unexploded bombs . Blast site at LOC_Event . Image courtesy ibnlive . . The bomb exploded in the LOC_Event on LOC_Event of the crowded LOC_Event . As many as 11 additional trains are arriving in LOC_Event on Sunday bringing in lakhs of people to attend the Modi rally in LOC_Event . Reports said the bomb was a low intensity explosive device . The injured man was rushed to hospital . A squad of the bomb disposal squad rushed to the spot and sealed off the site of the explosion . The platform was , fortunately , not very crowded at the time of the explosion . Five persons were killed and 83 injured in multiple blasts that rocked LOC_Event and the LOC_Event on Sunday , hours before BJPs prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi was to address the Hunkar rally here . A rash of seven explosions ripped through the surroundings of the LOC_Event , where nearly over two lakh people had gathered for the rally . Of the 83 people injured , two are in a critical condition . A total of seven blasts took place of which five were inside the LOC_Event and two at the station , Patna Senior Superintendent of Police Manu Maharaj told The Hindu . One of the blasts at the station occurred even as the bomb disposal squad was defusing a bomb . The police found two unexploded improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) at two locations around the maidan . Searches are on for more IEDs . The blasts claimed the lives of Ram Narayan Singh , Vikas Singh , Munna Srivastav and two others . The first blast occurred at 9.30 a.m. in the toilet on Platform 10 at the Patna junction . One critically injured person , admitted to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna , is believed to be a suspect . There is a possibility that he was injured while planting the bomb , Director-General of Police Abhayanand told a press conference . Two hours later , the second blast took place around 11.40 a.m. on the LOC_Event near Udyog Bhavan . The third one occurred at 12.05 p.m. near the LOC_Event , the fourth at 12.15 p.m. near the twin towers , and the fifth at 12.20 p.m. near the State Bank of India office . The last blast went off near the childrens park , the DGP said . There is discrepancy in the number and location of blasts given by the police . While the SSP said there were two blasts at the railway station , the DGP said there was only one . While the SSP said five blasts occurred inside the maidan , the DGP said only one went off . I was defusing a bomb when it went off , Navin Kumar Sah , member of the bomb disposal squad , who was injured , told The Hindu at the Patna Medical College and Hospital . The second blast took place at 1 p.m. I could escape with a fractured finger . The bomb I was defusing had a timer attached to it . So it could not have been a crude bomb , he said . The police had arrested one Imtiaz Ansari , who was allegedly trying to flee after the blast at the station . He is suspected to be a member of the Indian Mujahideen and has given his confession . Three others detained also confessed to the crime , according to the police . IEDs were used in all the blasts , and timers and improvised switches were used in some . The bomb planted at the station was complicated , Mr. Abhayanand said . Asked if there was a terror link , Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said the possibility could not be ruled out . However , he denied political conspiracy . At a press conference , he condemned the incident and denied any security lapse by the police or the administration . The attacks were carried out with an intention to vitiate the atmosphere in Bihar . They took us completely by surprise . We had no intelligence input or alert either from the Centre or State agencies . It would be wrong and an over simplification to call this a security lapse . Such a thing has never happened in Bihar , Mr. Kumar said . Bihar has not had a history of confrontation . This is the handiwork of people who want to spoil Bihars climate . We wont let them succeed in their designs . , he said . He announced an ex gratia of Rs .5 lakh for the families of the deceased . Gujarat Chief Minister and BJP Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi on Saturday met the families of LOC_Event blasts victims . After concluding his visit in Nalanda , which is also the home district of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar , Modi addressed the media at LOC_Event Airport . He said : - I wanted to meet the family members of those who died in LOC_Event blasts but met just three families due to dense fog . - I am really thankful to the families of LOC_Event serial blasts for meeting and supporting me . - Bad weather played spoilsport , could n't visit some places . - People of Bihar have shown exemplary courage . - I am hopeful this strength of Bihar will become a case study for people across the globe . My salute for people of Bihar . - I greet people of Bihar of occassion of Diwali . This festival will take us out from darkness to light ( hinting at Nitish governance ) . Greet people on occassion of Chath . - In BJP 's rally terrorists killed many innocent Biharis . I wanted to meet the families . I gave this proposal to BJP leaders and today I came here to share their pain . Due to weather I could not go to 2 places . In future I will try to meet those two families . - Those who have lost their loved ones , I sympathise with them . - I thank people of Bihar for the massive turnout in the rally . I saw such people 's outrage in films . But in rally people showed lot of patience . I appreciate that . - People of Bihar showed great courage by attending rally despite bombs exploding.Modi on Saturday met the families of victims Rajnarain Singh , Vikas Kumar and Rajesh Kumar , three of the six people killed in serial blasts that took place just before he was to address a rally in LOC_Event on October 27 , 2013 . Modi first went to Gaurichak and then left for Kaimur and Nalanda.Reacting to Modi 's visit , Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that this is just a political gimmick and nothing else . Outsiders can not understand what 's happening here , Nitish was quoted as saying.Meanwhile , on way to Gopalganj , Modi 's helicopter was to get fuel refilling done and move to Supaul . But because of dense fog it returned back to LOC_Event for refuilling . Spoke to wife of Shaheed Munna Srivastava on phone . We are all a part of one family & stand by them in this hour of grief . Narendra Modi ( @narendramodi ) November 2 , 2013While meeting the families in Gaurichak , Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi assured them all help from the party.Amid tight security , Modi first headed for Gaurichak in old LOC_Event locality to convey his condolences to the kin of village Azeemchak resident Raj Narain Singh , 65 , who had died in the serial blasts.The BJP leader garlanded the photograph of Singh , sat on the floor as he consoled the family and handed them a cheque of Rs five lakh on behalf of the party , said Arun Sinha , BJP MLA from Kumar.Singh was a farmer and an ardent follower of Jaiprakash Narayan . In Kaimur , met the wife & children of Shaheed Vikas Singh and offered my deepest condolences to the family . Narendra Modi ( @narendramodi ) November 2 , 2013He had gone to Modi 's rally without informing his family , the Gujarat Chief Minister was informed by Bihar 's former Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi who accompanied him.Leader of Opposition Nand Kishore Yadav was also present.Sinha said the family sought a job for one of the three sons of Singh and Modi assured them he will look into it.Singh 's other two sons are in the Army.Modi consoled Singh 's widow . The family was assured that the party will take care of them and and they were satisfied that Modi had come to meet them , BJP leader Ravishanakar Prasad said.Modi 's visit was delayed by two hours this morning due to fog . As the weather opened up , he left for Gauraichak , 25 kms from here , in a helicopter . He has been accorded the status of state guest by the Bihar government . The state guest house where he has been staying is opposite to chief minister Nitish Kumar 's official residence.Narendra Modi meets family members of Rajnarain who died in LOC_Event serial blasts on October 27 , 2013 . Heavy security arrangement were in place Modi 's visit.Besides , Bihar police personnel , 150 police officials from Gujarat including one Additional Director General of Police rank officer , two Deputy Inspector General of Police and six Deputy Superintendent of Police level officials have come to Bihar as part of elaborate security cover for Modi at all the places he would visit , police sources said.As part of Z + + VVIP security arrangement for Modi , the Bihar government has issued an alert . A DIG rank officer along with Commissioner is accompanying the Gujarat Chief Minister in all the districts he is visiting , police sources added.At Singh 's residence , LOC_Event Senior Superintendent of Police Manu Maharaj was present . Mediapersons were allowed near the residence after a thorough check.From Gaurichak , Modi was slated to families of victims in Kaimur , Gopalganj , Supual , Begusarai and Nalanda.Nalanda , the home district of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar , will be the final destination of Modi . From there he will fly in helicopter straight to LOC_Event airport to return to Ahmedabad in his chartered plane , BJP sources said.Six persons were killed in multiple explosions on October 27 during Hunkar rally which was addressed by Modi , his first major political show in rival Nitish Kumar 's home turf after parting of ways of JD ( U ) and BJP on June 16 last.The investigation in the blasts case has pointed to involvement of Indian Mujahideen militant outfit.The Gujarat Chief Minister also handed over a cheque of Rs five lakh to the victim 's kin.Within a week , Narendra Modi has returned to Bihar to pay condolence to the six persons killed in the blasts on Sunday.The ruling JD ( U ) hit out at Modi , alleging that he was playing politics of polarisation and questioned why he had never visited the families of 2002 Gujarat riots.This kind of behaviour does not behove a person who has been named as the prime ministerial candidate by the main opposition party . We are not saying he should not come to Bihar . But the time he has chosen is not right , JD ( U ) leader Shivanand Tiwari said.His colleague K C Tyagi attacked Modi for travelling with a large security entourage from Gujarat , saying his actions were an insult to the prestige of Bihar.It is naked aggression from one state against another.He is behaving like the cruel invaders from the medieval period . Till now we had only seen Centre 's interference in affairs of the states , he said.Modi arrived in JP Airport LOC_Event late last night around 11:15 pm from Pune . He was received at the airport by Sushil Modi , Nand Kishore Yadav , Shahnawaz Hussain , Ravishankar Prasad , Dharmendra Pradhan among others.reached Simrahi bazar in Supaul ( my home district ) to meet family of Sh Bharat Rajak , victim of #patnablasts . Fog has delayed @narendramodi Shahnawaz Hussain ( @ShahnawazBJP ) November 2 , 2013Me@Namo met gaurichak victim.Very touchy scene.Thousands people nearby.paid his respect . Sushil Kumar Modi ( @SushilModi ) November 2 , 2013Helicopter flight of @Namo delayed because of dense fog.Visibility only 300 mt till 8.40 am.Required 600 mt . likely to take off at 9am . Sushil Kumar Modi ( @SushilModi ) November 2 , 2013With inputs from agencies . New Delhi : The Jamaat-e-Islami Hind has demanded stringent action ' against those who carried out a string of bomb attacks in Patna killing six people . Expressing grief over the deaths , Jamaat secretary general Nusrat Ali warned that communal forces might now create an environment of fear and terror ' in Bihar for electoral gains . Ali urged the Bihar and the central governments to maintain peace ahead of the Lok Sabha election due next year . PATNA/NEW DELHI : The political campaign for the 2014 election took a frightening turn on Sunday when six persons were killed and around 100 injured at the crowded venue of Narendra Modi 's rally here in a suspected terror attack designed to inflict mass casualties . Eight explosive devices with timers went off between 9.30 am and 12.25 pm as part of a serial bomb attack suspected to be the handiwork of Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) . Four alleged operatives of the outfit have been detained , one of whom is in critical condition after being caught in a blast . During interrogation , they reportedly told the police that they had staged the attack in retaliation for the Muzaffarnagar riots . They are also said to have named the IM module involved in the Bodh Gaya blasts . The names of the four detained are Imtiaz Ansari , Ainul , Akhtar and Kaleem . Ansari , a resident of Ranchi , was apprehended at the railway station just after the first two bombs went off . He was apparently planning to plant some more bombs but panicked when he saw the police and bomb disposal squad . On being challenged , he tried to flee but was arrested . The investigators then got incredibly lucky . Ansari had been asked by his handlers not to carry a mobile phone . So he had jotted down phone numbers of a dozen conspirators on a piece of paper , which fell into the hands of the cops and helped them track down some of the others . One of them , Ainul , who is critical , was initially believed to be a victim of the railway station blasts before it emerged that he was also part of the conspiracy . Six of the bombs went off inside and near LOC_Event , the sprawling rally venue . The remaining two blasts took place inside a public convenience complex at LOC_Event when trains , including special ones hired by the BJP , were disgorging rallyists . The police officially said there was only one blast inside the railway station , but sources insisted there were two . A bigger tragedy was averted only because the fortitude of the massive crowd ensured that there was no stampede : a horrific prospect that could have killed hundreds . Modi and other BJP leaders helped . The Gujarat CM , who defied the advice of Gujarat Police to address the Hunkar rally , as well as other BJP leaders made no mention of the outrage in their speeches , with the crowds taking the exploding improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) in their midst for firecrackers . Rajnath Singh and Arun Jaitley apparently favoured going ahead with the rally without mentioning the blast as they feared that calling it off would have led to panic and a stampede . The Hindutva leader , who spoke for less than an hour after the last explosion at LOC_Event , ended his speech by exhorting the audience to maintain peace and unity at all costs . There should be no stain on LOC_Event 's reputation and peace must be maintained across the country , ' he said . Reports from Ranchi said the Jharkhand police also detained two suspected IM operatives in this connection and seized explosives and a picture of Osama bin Laden from their possession . Talking to reporters , LOC_Event CM Nitish Kumar confirmed that documents found on Ansari had given the investigators important leads . Kumar , who was attacked by the BJP for not providing security at the rally venue , said police were working on the basis of telephone numbers Ansari was carrying , and claimed that the case would be worked out shortly . According to sources , Ansari and other members of the gang had ringed the venue with explosives in the morning when the participants had already started congregating . The explosives were planted in a clockwise manner , starting with a spot bang across the Police Control Room . Sources quoted Ansari as telling his interrogators that the IM module took care not to plant the explosives in the night , fearing that dew would dampen the IEDs which were said to be similar to those used in the Bodh Gaya blasts . Talking to reporters , the LOC_Event CM and his DGP Abhayanand were at pains to stress that there were no lapses on the government 's part . Kumar said the rally organizers were extended all assistance sought by them , adding that BJP had expressed no apprehension of a terror attack . The police chief also claimed that standard operating procedures laid down for the purpose were scrupulously followed . However , BJP leaders accused them of laxity and indifference , saying that even elementary precaution setting up adequate number of frisking points and anti-sabotage checks was not taken . Also , while the LOC_Event CM claimed that there was no intelligence alert , sources in the police said that IB had warned them about a possible terror attack on the rally . The multiple jimmy-jib cameras for an aerial view of the surging crowds . The fast camera movements copied from MTV shows . The steady cameras to track people on the stage . The professional event management firm for set design and hi-tech acoustics . The massive translites and gigantic LED screens.The stage seemed set more for a rock concert by the reigning superstar . But this was no music festival . This was BJP 's PM candidate Narendra Modi 's first rally in Bihar . And what a debut it was.Patna 's historic Gandhi Maidan was packed to the brim with enthusiastic supporters who had travelled many hours from different parts of the state.They had come in especially-arranged trains and buses and had walked many miles to reach the Gandhi Maidan . Many had made their own arrangements to come and listen to a man who had so far been denied the opportunity to enter Bihar by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.The venue started filling up from the wee hours of the morning and by the time the Gujarat Chief Minister arrived around 1 pm , there was not an inch of free space.People had climbed onto roofs and terraces of high rise buildings adjoining the venue . They had even jumped onto Mahatma Gandhi 's statue at the entrance of the ground.Every corner was taken . And as Modi was walking up the stage , an enthusiastic horde crashed through the barricades and entered the media enclosure and the VIP area . Chants of Modi , Modi filled the air , quite like the chants that rally for Sachin at the Wankhade Stadium.The crowd latched onto every word Modi spoke , quite like cricket fans would delight at every stroke Sachin played.There were multiple blasts near the venue of the rally just before Modi started speaking.At first they sounded like Diwali crackers being set off by enthusiastic supporters . But as news trickled in of casualties , tension gripped the air.Local BJP leaders came on the microphone and tried to downplay the explosions and dismissed them as tyre blasts and firecrackers.The crowds were convinced that this was a conspiracy to ruin Modi 's rally.On any other occasion , there would have been a mad scramble to get out of the venue and a stampede would have been highly likely.But despite the blasts , which saw dozens of injured being rushed to nearby hospitals , the crowds did n't move from their place.No mischief-maker was going to come between the crowds and Modi today.For the man himself , this rally was special . He had a point to prove . So far , coalition dharma had forced him to lie low and not respond to Nitish Kumar 's constant barbs against him.But today , there was no alliance compulsion to hold him back . And Modi let loose.He started off in Bhojpuri , and a delighted crowd responded with wah-wah . He spoke of Bihari pride and how the state government had failed to create jobs and was forcing Biharis to travel to Gujarat and elsewhere in search of employment.But the main target of Modi 's speech was Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar , a leader he derisively referred to as his friend.Modi called Nitish and opportunist and hollered : People ask me why my friend left the BJP . I tell them those who can stab their guru Jai Prakash Narayan and Ram Manohar Lohia in the back can easily leave their long-time friend BJP . We sacrificed the chance of Sushil Kumar Modi becoming the chief minister in favour of my friend ( Nitish Kumar ) for the sake of clearing the Jungle Raj ' in Bihar . Nitish did n't betray the BJP . He betrayed the people of Bihar . I want to ask you , will you punish those people who betrayed you?This was BJP 's PM candidate Narendra Modi 's first rally in Bihar.For the first time at a public rally , Modi highlighted his roots as a chaiwallah selling tea at a railway platform during his early days in Gujarat.In a deeply casteist society , Modi tried to play up his credentials as a backward leader who understood the pain of the impoverished , unlike Rahul Gandhi , who was to the manor born.Congress leaders do n't know what poverty and hunger are . I used to sell tea on trains . I know how difficult it is to get onto trains and make a living . Even the railway minister does n't have my experience of the problems one faces on trains.Modi also tried to reach out to the Muslims of Bihar and promised them development.Our Muslim brothers in Bihar are so backward . In Gujarat , one of the fastest developing regions is Muslim-dominated . Let Hindus and Muslims together and work towards ending poverty . Our religion is India first . We have to maintain peace and harmony at any cost.However , the BJP 's attempts to attract Muslims in large numbers to the rally did not materialise.Most people who came in trains , even from Muslim dominated areas like Kishanganj , were Hindus.Muslim presence at the Gandhi Maidan was minimal.Gandhi Maidan has seen massive rallies in the past . The historic rally of Jai Prakash Narain in 1974 , in which he gave the war cry for Sampoorna Kranti ' against the Indira Gandhi government , was held here.Also , Lalu Prasad 's mega Garib Raila of 1995 , which is supposed to have attracted a crowd of more than four lakh people , at a time when the RJD chief 's popularity was at its peak in Bihar.The BJP is claiming that the Hunkar Rally on Sunday smashed all previous attendance records.Estimates vary wildly . By conservative estimates there were about 3 lakh people at the rally . The more exuberant among the BJP leaders say more than 10 lakh people attended.The real number may lie somewhere in between . But make no mistake , Modi sent a strong message from Gandhi Maidan.No other leader in Bihar today is capable of attracting such a big crowd to a rally.Most , in fact , avoid the maidan to hide their inability to fill up the ground.Most of the people who attended Sunday 's rally were youngsters . Many were first time voters , who seemed more attracted to the aura of Modi than they were to the policies of the BJP.Whether Modi can live up to the expectations that he seems to have built up is not known . But the youngsters who gathered at the Gandhi Maidan seem to believe that the BJP leader has a magic wand with which he can cure India of its ills.They have heard of the Gujarat development model and they think Modi can turn Bihar into a land of milk and honey.Modi wanted a show of strength and he achieved that goal.But the real test is to see if Modi can convert the surging crowds at the rally into voters during the general elections . . View PhotosPatna , Oct 27 : BJP 's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi addressed a mega BJP rally here on Sunday . The rally was preceded by a series of low-intensity blasts in the LOC_Event capital , which led to the death of one person . 2.30 pm . . Narendra Modi concludes his speech . Modi asks people to return home safely . You have won the heart of India . he said . Modi on Muslims and development . . Both Hindus and Muslims need to fight poverty together instead of fighting themselves . . . Kutch and Bharuch districts in Gujarat are highly developed and both have huge presence of Muslims . . . The Haj quota for Muslims in LOC_Event is 7,500 while the number of applications is much below that for the Muslims are poor . In Gujarat , 40,000 applications come for 4,500 seats . It is because the Muslims are happier in Gujarat . . . Modi speaks on special package for LOC_Event . . Bihar BJP has asked the government for 50 crore for development of the state . . . It 's just a matter of 200 days . We will pay back your affection . . . This is not only a historic rally but a rally that will set a new history , Mod said . Modi slams JD ( U ) minister for saying that one joins the army only to get killed . Will you tolerate such humiliation ? , he asks the audience . Modi takes on Congress . . Chanakya stressed unity of India . Now , we are upto dividing it internally . . . A person who used to sell tea in trains knows more problems about trains than even the rail minister and I have seen those problems more closely . . . The Congress promised to give employment to the youth . Has it done anything on this aspect ? . . The Congress had promised to curb price rise within 100 days of coming to power . Has it done anything in 10 years ? . . Dynasty is the biggest enemy of democracy . Other enemies are casteism , communal politics and opportunism . The politics in LOC_Event has been hit by all these evils . . . If the Congress gives up its dynastic politics , I will stop uttering the name Shahzada . . . I was seeing TV last night , our Congress friends seem very troubled that why I mention the word Shahzada . . . We must realise of the dream of Congress-free India . . . Modi targets Nitish again . . He betrayed not only with the BJP but with crores of people of LOC_Event . . . Our friend was told top join the Congress so that he could become the PM . . . BJP had double number of seats than JD ( U ) but still we agreed to make our friend the CM . . . Once I was with my LOC_Event friend on the same table during a CM 's meeting . He was apprehensive sitting with me . I assured him that there was no camera man around . Hypocrisy must have a limit . . . Narendra Modi on Lalu Prasad . . Lalu Prasad never spares me and says he will never allow me to become the PM . . . Three months ago he accident and I called Mr Lalu Prasad . . . I did not tell anything in the media but Lalu Prasad acknowledged my gesture . . . Narendra Modi tears into Nitish Kumar . . It was in 2006 when your CM & my friend came to Gujarat for a wedding , I was also there and we offered him full hospitality . . . JP and Lohia will never forgive their actions . . . Those who consider them disciples of Lohia , they have stabbed him in the back and are with Congress . . . LOC_Event CM has been my dear friend . When people ask me why he left you , I tell them he who leaves JP , can easily dump BJP . . . Modi speaks on LOC_Event 's glorious past . . LOC_Event has always guided the country . It gave the country personalities like Buddha , Mahavir , Guru Govind Singh & Jayaprakash Narayan . . . Who is giving the Hunkaar today ? It is the hunkaar of crores of Indians and it has emerged from LOC_Event . . . The history of India has two important events . One , the Satyagraha in Chamaparan and two , the Dandi March in Gujarat . . . This is not a mega rally . It is an occasion to show Bharat ki Mahashakti . . . The history of LOC_Event is the history of India . . . 1.35 pm . . Narendra Modi begins his address . 1.30 pm . . Prime Minister Manmohan Singh calls up LOC_Event CM Nitish Kumar and asks him to investigate the LOC_Event blasts . He also condemns the blasts . 1.20 pm . . BJP president Rajnath Singh addresses . BJP does not play communal politics like Congress and JD ( U ) , he said . Singh mocked Rahul Gandhi . Do n't try to exploit the sentiments of the common people , he said . Singh asked if the PM does n't say anything , then how the CBI will make him speak ? . . Singh mocks Prime Minister Manmohan Singh . Our PM , whatever he puts his hands on that thing disappears like potatoes , onions , coal files , he said . Will look after the farmers ' interests . . . Rajnath tears in to the UPA government over price rise . You have seen a BJP government at the Centre . In 6 years , prices were not allowed to rise , he said . 1.10 pm . . Arun Jaitley speaks . There will be change in Delhi and also LOC_Event . . . The Centre is the most corrupt government in history and its leadership has disappointed all . . . Jaitley rakes up the anti-Congress mood that prevailed in 1977 and 1989 . He speaks about leaders like Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan and Ram Manohar Lohia . On September 13 , BJP declared Modi as the PM candidate and the political landscape of the nation has changed since then . . . I have seen the elections of 1977 but the excitement and winds of change . Those who do not understand will be swept away . . . 1.05 pm . . Actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha , who is the local MP , also present at the venue . He welcomes the national leaders and Modi . Modi is accompanied by BJP president Rajnath Singh and Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Arun jaitley . Both have been fecilitated . 1.00 pm . . Narendra Modi reaches venue . 12.50 pm . . A seven-member team comprising NIA and NSG personnel sent to LOC_Event in the wake of the blasts . 12.30 pm . . Former LOC_Event deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi speaks . History will never forgive you . You have betrayed the people of LOC_Event , Modi said while attacking Nitish Kumar . Lalu and Nitish did their rallies in power . Today we are not in power but we did this rally , Modi said . More than half of the people attending the rally are youth . Youth are with us and youth are with Narendra Modi , Modi said . In my 40 years of public life , saw JP and Lalu rally and even JDU rallies but this rally has broken all records . Modi said . Seven low-intensity blasts reported from LOC_Event in all , ahead of Modi 's address . 12.20 pm . . Narendra Modi has reached LOC_Event . 12.10 pm . . Ravi Shankar Prasad , the Deputy Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha , speaks . This is not a BJP but the Shankhnad of the people of LOC_Event , Prasad said . 12.10 pm . . Another blast in LOC_Event , this time near a cinema hall , close to the rally venue . One person died while six were injured in the twin blasts . 11.45 am . . BJP leader Giriraj Singh speaks . Giriraj Singh calls the opponents handicapped people . Nitish Kumar has fled to Munger . Let us pack him off to the house of Sonia Gandhi , Singh said . 11.45 am . . The person injured in blast in the LOC_Event , succumbs to his injuries . The home ministry has sought report from Bihar government on the railway station blast . The police said they would question the injured person . A special train carrying people to the rally was attacked in LOC_Event . Over 8 lakh people are expected to turn up at the event.Eleven special trains , 6,000 buses , 126 river boats , 33 cranes , 20,000 SUVs and a giant hi-tech stage have been set up for the event . 11.40 am . . Weather is clear in LOC_Event on Sunday . 11.40 am . . JD ( U ) spokesperson Niraj Singh said they are not responsible for the LOC_Event blast . We had a great enjoyment in defeating Pakistan during our playing days . But the current prime minister does nothing even when Pakistanis are beheading our soldiers , Azad , an MP , said . 11.35 am . . Cricketer-turned-politician Kirti Azad speaks . Earlier , Rudy addressed the crowd in Bhojpuri . 11.30 am . . RJD blames Nitish Kumar government over the bomb explosion in LOC_Event , says it 's a security failure . 11.30 am . . BJP leader and former Union minister Shahnawaz Hussain speaks at the LOC_Event rally . He slams Nitish Kumar and JD ( U ) over terminating relation with the BJP and also Rahul Gandhi . Hussain concludes his speech . He and Rajiv Pratap Rudy will receive Modi at LOC_Event airport . If the ambience is so electric now itself , just imagine what it will be like after Narendra Modi speaks , Hussain said . Nitish Kumar , what will you fight against Narendra Modi ? Sushil Kumar Modi alone is enough for you , Hussain said . Will not let division of the Muslim society like Rahul Gandhi , Hussain said . If the ambience is so electric now itself , just imagine what it will be like after Narendra Modi speaks , Hussain said . Hussain concludes his speech . He and Rajiv Pratap Rudy will receive Modi at LOC_Event airport . 11.15 am . . People were camping in Gandhi Maidan since Saturday night and the venue was almost filled up by 8 am on Sunday . All roads leading to Gandhi Maidan , the venue of the Hunkaar Rally , have severe traffic jam . LOC_Event Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will not be in LOC_Event on Sunday . 11 am . . A crude bomb explosion in LOC_Event . One person was injured and admitted to Patna Medical College . Two more crude bombs were found . OneIndia News . PATNA/NEW DELHI : Tehsin Akhtar alias Monu , Indian Mujahideen 's new commander , masterminded the bomb attack on Narendra Modi 's crowded rally to kill women and children in large numbers by setting off a stampede , and was present at LOC_Event to supervise the bombers as they ringed the rally ground with explosives . This was revealed by IM operative Imtiaz Ansari who was fortuitously arrested with explosives and has since provided vital leads on the bombers and the terror plot . Hamara uddeshya tha aatank faile aur bhag daur main kafi sankhya mein mahilayen aur bachche maren ( Our objective was to trigger fear so that many women and children get killed in the resultant rush ) , ' Imtiaz was quoted as saying in the FIR registered by Patna Police . Muzaffarnagar mein bahut Muslim maare gaye hain , aur tum sirf namaz hi padhte raho ( Many Muslims got killed in Muzaffarnagar and all that you people do is to offer namaz ) , ' Tehsin exhorted his associates , according to Imtiaz . This was noted in the FIR . The incendiary exhortation of Tehsin , who used the alias of Memon for the LOC_Event attack , had the desired effect with Imtiaz and others getting motivated to carry out a spectacular attack . Yeh sun kar yeh bhi uttejit hue aur koi bada kaam karne ka tay hua , ' the FIR said . Sources also quoted Imtiaz acknowledging the involvement of Tehsin , a resident of Samastipur district in Bihar , in the serial bomb blasts on LOC_Event in LOC_Event in July : a terror attack scripted in retaliation against the alleged killings of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar . Besides Imtiaz 's statement , Tehsin 's involvement in LOC_Event attack is indicated also by the use of the same brand of clocks , Lotus , which is manufactured at Morvi in Gujarat 's Rajkot district , in both the serial blasts . Sources in Bihar Police confirmed to TOI that Tehsin , who is wanted for multiple terror blasts , was recently spotted in the state , adding that a massive manhunt has been launched for the fugitive jihadi . His photographs have been circulated among authorities in districts and posts of the Shashatra Seema Bal , the paramilitary force which guards the border with Nepal , ' a source said . In its FIR , Patna Police identified other members of the group as Tariq alias Ainul who suffered life-threatening injuries while planting bombs at the railway station , Taufiq , Nauman and Hyder alias Abdullah . It cited Imtiaz 's testimony to say that Tehsin started instigating the group to carry out the serial blasts since Monday . The group split into three batches of two each , and took different buses of Priyanshu Travels to reach Patna on the morning of Sunday when the rally was scheduled . Imtiaz and Tariq were to plant bombs at the railway station to strike those arriving for the rally , before reuniting with the others at LOC_Event . However , one of the IEDs exploded when Tariq was planting them . The explosion brought many policemen to the station and one of the constables nabbed Imtiaz when he was trying to escape . Imtiaz 's interrogation helped police establish the identity of others involved in the attack , including Tehsin , who is wanted for the 2011 triple blasts in Mumbai , Pune blasts in 2012 and Hyderabad blasts in 2013 and appears to have taken over the leadership of IM after the arrest of Yasin Bhatkal in August . Yasin 's arrest and the details he provided about his accomplices should have led cops to Tehsin and another IM terrorist , Pakistani national Waqas , from their hideout in Mangalore . However , after the arrest started playing on TV news , the two abandoned their Mangalore flat leaving behind several bomb-making material . A leading member of IM 's Darbhanga module , he has set up a network which stretches from Darbhanga , Madhubani , Sitamarhi and Samastipur in northern Bihar to Aurangabad and Gaya in central Bihar . So , the LOC_Event serial blasts were the handiwork of Indian Mujahideen to avenge Muzaffarnagar riots ? That 's what the security agencies want us to believe . Should we trust them ? Well , we do not know the truth yet , but there 's little to trust this spin because it tries to deflect attention from the actual conspiracy and subtly justify the crime.First , the purpose was to kill some people in explosions and trigger a stampede that killed scores , scare people and scuttle the rally . Not avenging Muzaffarnagar as the police is spinning it.Bihar , LOC_Event or for that matter Narendra Modi has little do with riots in Muzaffarnagar . That the terrorists chose LOC_Event 's Hunkar Rally to target means they chose Hunkar Rally as target . Simple . There 's no need to find meanings in what is apparent.Also Read : Ca n't disappoint those at rally , Modi said when told to skip LOC_Event addressWhen security agencies add motives beyond the obvious , they attribute , often without realising it , a cause to the madness . Madness may have an unholy pattern , but does n't always have a holier motive . They wanted to avenge one riot or another becomes a tool , like it or not , to lessen the severity of the crime . The revenge angle may or may not be true . In any case , killing innocents in the name of revenge is terrorism.Smoke rises after the serial blasts that shook Modi 's Hunkar rally in LOC_Event on Sunday . PTIIt was no coincidence that the tragedy did n't become colossal in scale . All the ingredients that make a disaster were present . Lakhs of people gathered in an area with controlled access and exit . A political rally largely consisting of charged-up youth . A leader branded divisive addressing a crowd in the heart of the city that he was persona non grata in . When cops or vested interests prop up the revenge angle , they forget that an attack on any election rally is an attack on democracy.In this case , there is also an attempt to deny credit where it 's due : That BJP leaders handled the blasts in a mature and responsible manner . Hundreds of thousands of emotionally charged youth could do a great deal of damage to themselves and to the city if told that the rally was under attack . Initially , BJP leaders too were in the dark as the LOC_Event explosions were seen in isolation.When bombs started going off in the vicinity of the ground , cops told them not to worry about pre-Diwali crackers and tyre bursts . But news did reach the stage that bombs had been planted around the venue and that people had died and many had been injured.Must Read : Modi can not hope to lead India by inspiring fear , says New York TimesHence the final lines of Modi 's speech were focused on maintaining calm , communal harmony and ensuring no life is lost . Any panic or one provocative statement could turn it into a calamity.Patna escaped a disaster . Not because of security , but because the party that organised the rally felt responsible for maintaining calm and minimising damage . This is not what generally happens in this country . With the kind of police preparation on display , simply cancelling the rally would have meant large-scale violence and destruction.That the Modi rally did take place , that a mob of that size could be controlled and disciplined by party workers in spite of the tragic turn of events deserves credit . Whether you like the BJP or not , whether you hate Modi or not . . SAMASTIPUR ( LOC_Event ) : Taqui Akhtar , a leader of ruling JD ( U ) and uncle of LOC_Event rally serial blasts mastermind Mohammad Tahseen Akhtar alias Monu , disowned him and sought his severest punishment on Wednesday . After division of our ancestral property in January , 2011 at Maniyari village , 8km from the district headquarters and 60 km from LOC_Event , we have no ties with his family , ' Taqui Akhtar , JD ( U ) district general secretary told reporters here . We have nothing to do with him and his family after division of our ancestral property , ' he stressed , adding he had already stated it in the complaint he lodged with the Kalyanpur police station after Monu left home . Tahseen Akhtar alias Monu is considered as number two in the Indian Mujahideen ( IM ) after Yasin Bhatkal and investigations have pointed out that he is the mastermind behind the serial blasts in LOC_Event on Sunday before BJP 's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi was to address a rally . Monu 's grandfather Mohammad Jahrul Haque had retired as a police inspector . His father Wasim Akhtar is the eldest of the five brothers and Monu is eldest among the three sons , villagers said . Wasim Akhtar is a marginal farmer and his two younger sons are studying in school . The fugitive IM activist did his matriculation from Maniyari High School and had gone to Darbhanga in connection with preparation for engineering examination where he came in contact with Bhatkal , villagers added . BANGALORE : Tehsin Akhtar alias Monu , the Indian Mujahideen operative who allegedly masterminded Sunday 's LOC_Event serial blasts , is suspected to have been trained in bomb-making by Yasin Bhatkal , the IM co-founder who is currently in custody . IM member Imtiaz Ansari , another suspect arrested for the LOC_Event blasts , has told interrogators that Yasin anointed Tehsin as his successor after his satisfactory ' performance , according to police sources . Tehsin hails from Bihar 's Maniyarpur village . He met Yasin and Riyaz Bhatkal at a madrasa there in 2005 . In the beginning , Tehsin took care of the IM founder-leaders by arranging their shelter , transport and other daily needs . Impressed by his dedication and commitment , Yasin asked him to join them , ' a source said . Tehsin later became a vital operative who identified places in northern India as potential blast sites . Target the South ' Yasin Bhatkal is believed to have told Tehsin that southern states should be targeted with bigger explosions . That 's why Tehsin started visiting Mangalore and stayed there for sometime , and also Koppa in Chikmagalur district . It was in Koppa where he and others experimented with a few explosives , ' said the source . He used explosive material commonly available in neighbourhood markets . In early 2012 , Tehsin used a local booth near Koppa bus stand to make calls to a mobile phone in Bangalore . That number is now defunct , ' the source said . On the day Delhi police arrested Yasin , Tehsin was in Mangalore . Soon after electronic channels aired the news of Yasin 's arrest , Tehsin fled leaving behind explosive material which were recovered by sleuths of the National Investigating Agency ( NIA ) later , ' said a police office . During March-April this year , Tehsin frequently shuttled between Mangalore and Bhatkal town . We believe Tehsin was all alone in the flat during those months and he visited Bhatkal by a private bus . We have recovered a few private bus tickets from the flat , ' said a source . Gujarat Police on Thursday criticised its Bihar counterpart , alleging serious lapses in security measures for Chief Minister Narendra Modi 's rally in LOC_Event , saying that had the Bihar administration heeded its request , perhaps the situation could have been avoided . Seven blasts rocked LOC_Event , the venue of Modi 's rally and surrounding areas , leading to the death of six people just before the event on Sunday in LOC_Event . Rehearsals before the event was not carried out , except for the route rehearsal , in-charge Gujarat DGP Pramod Kumar 's office said in a statement issued in Ahmedabad . . . Anti-sabotage checking , which is mandatory for public meetings was not conducted properly . Routine security drills such as access control , checking and frisking people attending the rally as well as screening of baggage , were not conducted . It is further reported that a large number of vehicles were parked inside the venue of the rally , the statement said . Senior police officers from Gujarat had requested the Bihar police to conduct a joint Advance Security Liaison ( ASL ) . It was only after great persuasion that Bihar police officers agreed to join the ASL , which was conducted by SP ( Patna City ) , Additional Director ( IB ) and SP ( CM Security ) Gujarat . However , Bihar Police officers , for reasons best known to them , had refused to sign the ASL report and had not taken note of relevant issues mentioned therein , it said . The ADGP ( Intelligence ) Gujarat had sent a detailed communication to ADGP ( Special Branch ) Bihar about the threat faced by Modi from various terrorist organisations , it said . The Bihar administration did not respond to this communication and never communicated about issues that may be foreseen in providing foolproof security for VIPs and the venue , the statement said . The Gujarat police hoped that in future , the central government and its apparatus would impress upon states where such visits take place , to take security concerns seriously and protect the lives of people and VIPs , it said . The statement comes after Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said that he had given instructions to his home department and police to provide maximum security for the BJP rally . The state BJP on Monday accused the Nitish Kumar government of deliberately ' neglecting the security concerns about the party 's PM candidate Narendra Modi and the people who had come to participate in the rally at LOC_Event on Sunday . At least six people died in the serial blasts engineered by suspected IM operatives near the rally venue as well as the railway station . A state BJP delegation would call on governor D Y Patil on Wednesday and submit him a memorandum addressed to President Pranab Mukherjee . The memorandum will give details of the security concerns and apprehensions expressed by the party in the run-up to the rally and the state government 's callous stance ' towards the same . BJP chief Mangal Pandey said the memorandum would also point out that the state government 's negligence was deliberate ' in the backdrop of the Centre 's general countrywide alert regarding the likely IM threat on October 1 and again on October 23 to various targets , including the rally in LOC_Event on Sunday . As far as the Nitish Kumar government is concerned , its neglect of the security matters is criminal , ' former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said , adding the terror operatives ' target was not the crowd , but Narendra Modi . Sushil Modi said a posse of Gujarat police and IB team had held advanced security liaison ( ASL ) meeting with the Bihar police top brass . The Gujarat police and IB put their mandatory signatures on the text of the understanding regarding security arrangements , but the Bihar police did not oblige them . Neither full dress rehearsal was performed nor was anti-sabotage check done in LOC_Event , ' he added . Leader of opposition in the state assembly Nand Kishore Yadav said a metal detector was installed only near the stage , not at the entry points of LOC_Event . On the night of October 25 , a contingent of police in the ratio of 1:4 took charge of the stage and continued there till the morning of October 27 , after which Patna DM took control of it . The administration had decided to install 11 CCTV cameras , but on the day of the rally only two could be fixed around 11am . The administration had assured to deploy police personnel for security purposes , but did not . As a result , the services of a private security agency were requisitioned , Yadav said . He said people not carrying passes were allowed to go behind the stage , and the gate of the northwestern campus of Gandhi statue was also opened . After the blast at LOC_Event , police personnel present near the stage started saying a blast had occurred , implicitly asking for winding off the rally . Had we not maintained poise , a major stampede would have occurred , ' Yadav said . 27 live bombs have been found in a room of a privately-run small hotel in LOC_Event , the capital of Jharkhand and around 350 kilometres from Patna . The bombs were discovered when the National Investigation Agency or NIA along with the Jharkhand Police raided the hotel after a tip-off that Haider Ali , one the main suspects in the serial blasts that hit LOC_Event last month , hours before a Narendra Modi rally , might have been seen there . Four people have been detained for questioning but there have been no arrests . The police said they worked till late last night to defuse the explosives , which were pipe bombs , nine bundles of three each and very similar to those that went off in LOC_Event . A senior cop said they also found timer devices with lotus branding , much like the ones that were found in LOC_Event and also in the LOC_Event blasts in LOC_Event some months ago . The bombs found in LOC_Event were powerful ; one of these bundles could have killed about 15 to 10 people and injured another 50 , the police said . Six people were killed and 83 injured in the LOC_Event attack , which investigators link to a newly-formed branch in LOC_Event of terror group Indian Mujahideen , though it has not claimed responsibility . Haider Ali is among the six accused of the attack . Last week , the NIA raided a village in Jharkhand to find him but he managed to escape . Investigators say Haider Ali is allegedly in close touch with Tehseen Akhtar , who has been effectively running the Mujahideen since its reported co-founder Yasin Bhatkal was arrested in August . Those handling the case say that Haider Ali passed on instructions from Tehseen Akhtar to the man assigned to execute the attacks , Imtiaz Ansari . He was arrested while trying to run away from the train station where the first of seven bombs exploded in LOC_Event . Another 11 bombs were found and defused in the city . The National Investigation Agency ( NIA ) on Thursday filed first charge sheet in the case relating to the last years LOC_Event serial blasts . The NIA has so far arrested eight suspects for their alleged involvement in the explosions . Investigation into the serial blasts at LOC_Event and LOC_Event railway station was handed over to the NIA . During the probe , eight accused were arrested of whom one succumbed to injuries sustained while planting a bomb at the railway station , said an NIA official . Since the investigation in respect of one of the accused , Imtiyaz Ansari , a resident of Dhurwa in Ranchi ( Jharkhand ) , has been completed , the agency filed the charge sheet against him under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code , Explosive Substances Act and other laws at an NIA special court . Investigations revealed that Imtiyaz along with others had planted the bombs at the LOC_Event railway station and Gandhi Maidan , where the Hunkar rally of Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi was being organised . Imtiyaz was associated with the Students Islamic Movement of India and also had very close links with the members of Indian Mujahideen , said an NIA release . Cash rewards ranging from Rs . 5 lakh to Rs . 10 lakh have been declared for the arrest of the absconding accused -- Mujibulla , Hyder Ali , Numan and Taufiq Ansari . Efforts are being made to track them down , an official added . 